CREATING A HABITABLE ENVIRONMENT
Humans have many basic needs and one of them is to have an environment that can sustain their lives .
Our current population is 6 billion people and it is still growing exponentially .
This will , if not already , caused problems as there are very limited spaces for us .
The solution can be obtain by using technology to achieve a better usage of space that we have and resolve the problems in lands that inhospitable such as desserts and swamps .
Some countries are having difficulties in managing a place to live for their citizen as they tend to get overpopulated .
This caused problem like the appearance of slums which most of the time is not safe due to the unhealthy environment .
The only way to satisfy the increasing demands of space is by achieving a better usage of the land like designing taller building so it can accommodate more number of people with the same spaces .
It is also important to create a better material that can support the buildings despite any natural disaster like earthquakes .
A good example is Japan where there are a lot of tall condominiums despite the large number of earthquakes happening in there .
Besides a better usage of lands , a better sanitation is also needed because a huge number of people need a clean environment to maintain their heath .
For example , countries in Africa can accommodate more people if they can manage to design a better sanitation system .
Countries with a lot of inhospitable space need not only to achieve a better space usage , but also to reforms the land to make it livable and technology can help it in a number of ways depending on the trouble the lands have .
For example , countries with a lot of deserts can terraform their desert to increase their habitable land and using irrigation to provide clean water to the desert .
Dubai will be a good example for this as previously the country got almost no natural water and they use irrigation to bring natural water to the country .
Another example is Netherlands , whose most of his lands is a swamp under sea level , have used a good irrigation system to counter their problem and to make their land habitable .
As the number of people grows , the need of habitable environment is unquestionably essential .
In this era , Engineering designs can help to provide more habitable accommodation by designing a stronger material so it 's possible to create a taller and safer building , a better and efficient sanitation system to prevent disease , and also by designing a way to change the condition of the inhabitable environment .
The Factors that Shaped Biometrics
Identification has become more and more important in our society .
Thanks to biometric identification , nowadays , we can open a locked door without keys , withdraw money from the bank without entering password , and travel around the world without taking various cards .
Biometrics , by definition , refers to technologies of measurement and analysis of human body characteristics .
These characteristics include fingerprints , eye retinas and irises , voice patterns , facial patterns and hand measurements .
Besides some technologically determinists that allow the development of biometric identification , this technology is also shaped by three social factors , namely , the desire of the society for safety , convenience and economy .
Safety is one of the crucial problems that many countries and companies concern .
On one hand more and more virus and hack can access personal computers , so the secret data and documents may be stolen .
On the other hand , some important departments need strict administration to their members to avoid information leaks .
The United States Department of Defense ( DoD ) { Common Access Card } [ HYPERLINK : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Access_Card ] is a successful use of biometric identification .
This card contains biometric data to add security and reduce the risk of falsification ( Ben , 2008 ) .
As we can see , the biometric identification involved in important secure areas is designed to identify human with accuracy and reliability .
Besides safety , convenience is also desirable for identifications .
We do not want to spend time and effort to remember password , neither do we want to carry any cards or equipments to show our identification .
For government and other organizations , they are also looking for small size equipments and time-saving progress of identification .
Therefore nowadays the biometric identification progress is designed to be very quick , and the equipments can be easily set up or can be combined with other equipments .
We can have fingerprint verification reader combined with built-in smartcard reader , and it only takes seconds to verify one 's identification .
Moreover , the society is looking for economic ways of identification .
Therefore , the equipments of biometric identification tend to be in-expensive .
For instance , Retinal Technologies , Inc. ( RTI ) , which captures a retinal image at distances from the user 's eye with the means of just using a patented aspheric lens array .
Hence the RTI system is very inexpensively and can be commonly used ( Retinal Technologies , Inc. Launches Company and Revolutionizes Biometrics With Patented Retinal Scanning Technology , 2001 ) .
The effects of the use of biometric identification are obvious .
With biometric identification , our fingers , faces and even eyes become our identification .
This technology is widely used in our society and it brings benefit to the government , the military , business and every individual .
All in all , biometric identification achieves great development as human seek for better information protection , easier life style and greater economic profit , and it benefits much to those who shaped it .
References B .
Ben ( { June 6 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/June_6 ] , { 2008 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2008 ] ) .
" { Bush pushes biometrics for national security } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.fcw.com/online/news/152750-1.html ] " .
Federal Computer Week .
Retrieved 5th September , 2009 , from { http : //www.fcw.com/online/news/152750-1.html } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.fcw.com/online/news/152750-1.html ]
Retinal Technologies , Inc. Launches Company and Revolutionizes Biometrics With Patented Retinal Scanning Technology ( 30th July,2001 ) Retrieved 5th , September , 2009 , from { http : //findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0EIN/is_2001_July_30/ai_76838243/ } [ HYPERLINK : http : //findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0EIN/is_2001_July_30/ai_76838243/ ]
Nuclear technology had come a long way since Ernest Rutherford first split the atom in 1917 .
The subsequent realization that the additional neutrons produced from fission reaction can induce a nuclear chain reaction sparked off widespread interest in nuclear technology .
Since then , nuclear technology had been through wars , arms races and had found many applications in the medical , industrial and energy fields .
When uranium fission was discovered in 1938 , it sparked widespread scientific interest due to the massive amount of energy released by the reaction .
However most American physicists were still skeptical that it could be turned into a bomb or an energy source .
However , with the world on the brink of war , military considerations would accelerate the development of nuclear technology beyond the imagination of the initial skeptics .
Following fears that Nazi Germany was developing nuclear weaponry , the Manhattan Project was initiated in the United States .
The project eventually grew to include over thirty sites across America dedicated to nuclear research .
The research effort culminated in " Fat Man " and " Little Boy " , two atomic bombs that were dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima respectively .
Although wartime nuclear research brought about nothing but devastation and death , President Eisenhower 's " Atoms for Peace " speech would set the world off on the road of peaceful pursuit of nuclear energy .
The development of nuclear technology was also heavily influenced by public opinion , especially after disastrous accidents occurred in nuclear power stations .
The steady growth of nuclear power in the 1960s was hampered by the Three Mile Island nuclear accident in 1979 and the growing voices of the anti-nuclear movement .
The leakage of radioactive gas into the atmosphere prompted the many anti-nuclear demonstrations that sprung up across the America in the following months .
Although the reactor was eventually cleaned up and decontaminated , the damaged dealt to nuclear power was irreversible and caused its subsequent decline .
This is especially evident in the steady drop of the number of nuclear reactors built , a statistic that was rising prior to the accident .
With rising oil prices and growing concerns of global warming , countries are looking to nuclear power to solve the energy needs of tomorrow .
China , the factory of the world , consumes phenomenal amounts of energy to fuel its economic growth .
To partly offset this gigantic demand for energy , China had launched an ambitious program to produce 16 % of its electricity from nuclear power by 2030 .
This endeavor to produce more nuclear power have stimulated the development of safer designs of nuclear reactors .
One example is the Pebble Bed reactor , an innovative design that is being actively researched in China .
Safety concerns characterized the basic concept of the Pebble Bed reactor with its passive safety design .
In this design , nuclear fuels are contained in spheres or 'pebbles ' of graphite .
Hence the nuclear fuels are contained in a more stable environment .
When machinery failure occurs and reactor temperature increase to extremely high levels , the reactor does not undergo a meltdown or explode , instead temperature just stays at the high level until the heat can be dissipated or cooled by coolant liquids .
In conclusion , nuclear technology development had always been driven by social factors .
World War 2 had given it momentum in its initial research , but it will be mankind 's need for a renewable and environmentally friendly energy source that will drive nuclear technology 's future developments .
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas which is trapping heat within the Earth .
As such , global surface temperature has risen by 0.74 degree Celsius for the past century .
Global warming has brought along devastating problems which will affect the lives of many if ignored .
Engineering can help to address this issue by designing technologies which are capable of producing little or no carbon dioxide .
According to Khandani 's article on 'Engineering design process'1 , there are five steps to designing processes .
First of all , we have to define the problem .
One of the main causes of global warming is the excessive release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere .
To reduce heat trap within the atmosphere , carbon dioxide level has to be reduced .
Engineers will have to design technologies which keep carbon dioxide emission to the minimum .
Presently in the market , there are already technologies which can replace present day equipments and emit less carbon dioxide .
However these products are not manufactured in large quantities due to high cost of production and low demand .
As such , engineers will have to design technological products which are able to keep both carbon dioxide emission and cost to the minimum , yet perform as efficiently as the present day products .
Second , engineers have to gather relevant information to assist them in generating ideas to tackle the problem .
As the subject has been discussed for quite some time , relevant information are readily available on the internet and articles in magazines and newspapers .
Third , engineers have to generate multiple solutions to solve the problem .
These solutions may be generated by analyzing existing products to find out how the weaknesses can be improved while retaining the strength .
We must also value-add the product to make it even more attractive .
On top of that , engineers can also obtain a variety of similar products and analyze them together .
Constantly combining ideas will result in better solutions being formulated .
Fourth , engineers have to analyze all the solutions which they have generated and apply professional knowledge to decide on a solution .
Engineers will have to use their technical knowledge to analyze the feasibility of the solutions .
They will then analyze the solutions in the economic and social aspects .
These products have to be sold in the market hence consumers must be convinced that these environmentally friendly products are as good as the present equipment in terms of performance and cost .
Therefore careful analysis of the product has to be made before selecting a solution for testing and implementation .
Last of all , engineers have to test and implement the solution which was selected in the previous step .
According Khandani 's article , engineers can test the solution by prototyping or concurrent engineering .
Prototyping involves constructing the prototype and testing it under real conditions .
Full scale production will not take place until extensive testing has been done .
Concurrent engineering requires a prototype to be constructed and the design is fine-tuned along the process .
However this tedious process is made easy through modern computer-aided design , analysis , and manufacturing software .
These computer simulations take significantly shorter time hence it is a preferred choice as it means that the product can be sold in the market in a shorter period of time .
Through the five designing steps , a process can be designed to meet the need to decrease carbon dioxide level .
Reference
1 Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
Engineers design products or systems that meet human needs .
One current human need that should be given priority is the search for renewable resources .
Everywhere in the world , fuel is used extensively .
From large scale power generators to the basic cooking at our homes , fuel is essential for all of these to happen and work .
Research had shown that fuel consumption had increased twenty percent over the last decade , and had projected that the depletion of fuels is drawing .
In addition , burning of fuels emit various harmful gases pollute our fragile environment .
These green house gases are the main cause to worldwide global warming which give rise to further catastrophes such as the rise in global temperature etc .
Engineers around the world had already started on working on this problem .
To guide them in this heavy responsibility of saving the earth , they use a set of simple steps which guide them in engineering a remedy , known as the Engineering Design Process .
This process consists of five major steps , mainly defining the problem , researching on information pertaining to the problem , brainstorming of ideas , filtering of the ideas , and lastly implementing it .
Firstly , we can define this worldwide problem as the search of alternative resources to the existing near-depletion fuels .
Since fuels are non renewable and emit so much harmful gases , the alternatives that we are looking for should be a renewable one and not emit harmful pollutants .
Next , we have to gather relevant information about the problem so that we are able to ensure that the solution we are looking for is able to solve the problem directly .
Studies had shown that an average of 2 lbs ( pounds ) of fuel is needed to produce 1kilowatt of power .
In addition , we realized that burning of fuels produce the large amount of greenhouse gases .
Thus , the alternative resources we are searching for must be able to produce this large amount of energy to replace fuels , as well as not emitting that huge amount of harmful gases .
After identifying the important factors , engineers proceed on their search for solutions .
They will generate and brainstorm innovative ideas .
Alternatives such as the use of water energy and wind energy are some examples .
With these ideas , we have to analyse and weigh the advantages and disadvantages of them .
An example is water which is a good renewable resource and is plentiful .
However , water energy can only be a small option due to the feasibility .
This is because a large body of water is needed to harness the same energy produced by a small amount of fuel .
All the solutions will be thoroughly analysed by the engineers before coming to a conclusion .
Lastly , the engineers will put their solution to test and ensure that the solution is able to solve the problem .
As such , engineers made use wind turbines and water hydraulic generators to harness the wind and water energy respectively .
It may not be the best option but both sources are renewable and are able to be used to slow down the depleting resource - fuel .
This had shown that the engineering design process is essential in solving problems and it ensures that the problem is thoroughly looked into and ensure that the engineers are generating ideas that target the main problem , the depletion and harmful fuel .
China 's problems hampering engineering design processes for innovations
Since the reform and open policy in 1970 's , China has been eagerly speeding up on its way to industrialization and flourish .
Although the improvement is apparent , there are still a number of problems hampering engineering design processes for innovations .
Among them , education system and perception of innovation stand out becoming two major difficulties .
As Dr. Ronald B. Standler pointed out in 1998 , creativity is very important in science and engineering .
Drs Wayne Hall and Paul Robinson from University of Plymouth also found out that " Engineering + Creativity = Employability for Graduates " .
However , China 's examination-oriented education system deeply throttles students ' creativity .
Not only parents and teachers but also whole society pushes students concentrating on how to get outstanding marks in examinations .
Students spend most of their time reciting details in text books and doing tedious exercises again and again for the simple reason that these can help them get familiar with examinations .
As a result , students have no chance to develop their creative thinking and gradually become stereotype .
Many years ago , the situation is different .
In 1931 , Qian Weichang entered Tsing Hua University , major in history with 0 marks in mathematics and physics .
However , after one year study , he found history not suitable for himself and became interested in physics and showed great talent .
When he appealed to change his major , the professor saw his creativity and eagerness , so he approved the appeal .
After several years researching and studying , Qian Weichang made many great breakthroughs in physics .
However , this kind of story can never be found in modern days .
Recently , a student got a very good result in the National College Entrance Examination ( NCEE ) , but he did not enter the university which he applied for , because the secondary school offered him ¥ 100,000 encouraging him to stay another year in secondary school for the next year 's NCEE , expecting that he could become the top 1 student in his province .
Creativity is developed by students ' exploring through their self-learning .
However , the present education system leads students to another way .
Therefore , the lack of creative qualified human resource seriously hampers engineering design processes for innovations in China .
Another big problem is that Chinese people usually do not value innovation enough .
In China , it will take several years for a new technology or new engineering design to be put into practice .
Moreover , many of the patents will never be used in production .
Most factories are not willing to spend money and time on innovation .
This problem significantly discourages engineers to make more effort to do research and design , for they will have little motivation to work hard .
However , in developed countries , people really appreciate innovation .
When a new technology comes out , usually it will be put into use within two or three months .
Therefore , people are well motivated to do research and design , and industry updates frequently .
Finally , great innovation may come .
21st century will be a more competitive and challenging opportunity for China to develop .
Whether China can take this chance to catch up with those well-developed countries or even surpass them depends on China 's trail of solving the present problems .
If China can come up with effective policy to change its education system and stimulate innovation , China 's pace to flourish may become even faster .
Reference Drs Wayne Hall and Paul Robinson , University of Plymouth HYPERLINK " http : //www.plymouth.ac.uk/pages/view.asp ? page = 12929 " http : //www.plymouth.ac.uk/pages/view.asp ? page = 12929 Ronald B. Standler , Creativity in science and engineering , 1998. http : //www.rbs0.com/create.htm
With the increase in human population , the human race has come to a point where desperate action needs to be taken to feed the millions of people in starvation .
Statistics show that the numbers are only continuing to grow with the existing population explosion .
If the former need is put forward to an engineer , he can view it as a broad topic with many possible solutions .
Some solutions as examples would be to design plants/fertilizers that give higher yield or working with health experts introducing new ways to control population growth .
An engineer would firstly need to define the problem .
Defining it would include a refining of the question at hand to a more straight forward one .
With the current issue being a hungry population to be fed , the definition for this would be that the food production needs to meet the requirements of the people .
The next step towards achieving this goal would be to gather information on certain aspects relating to his " pictured " solution .
For example , if his idea is to produce plants which give much greater yield , he needs to assess the yield of existing plants .
From that point onwards he could design different possible approaches to what he expects to do .
He could genetically modify the plants genome to match with a plant that gives greater product or he could create a new genetic material for a higher yielding food plant .
Looking at this third step we realize why the second stage of an engineering design process of gathering information is important.Once all the information is put together into the different possible solutions , the engineer is put to decide which method out of the lot is suited best for the purpose and if agrees with existing international laws .
At this point also any available detail into the viability of the method is valuable .
Lastly comes the most crucial part of an engineering design process .
This determines how accurate the engineer might have been in his work and also if he looked at nature as a considerable factor during his designing process .
The testing stage is usually either the most rewarding or heart- breaking stage of a design process .
Even though the solution seems perfect according to calculations , there are " nature factors " that we can not control which still affect any process we carry under the sun .
It is likely that this genetically modified plant was give three hundred percent yield is actually not surviving until harvest .
If that is the case , what the engineer would do is analyze the problem at hand and point out exactly which part of the solution needs to be modified .
Another aspect of great engineers is their ability to optimize processes .
This includes less useless waste , more recyclable waste material and high productivity .
So any engineering process can be continuously modified into a faster , better and greener one .
It is self-explanatory that every engineering design process is naturally a cyclic process .
There is no definite correct solution for the question at hand .
With the many possible solutions , what a smart engineer does he figures the best solution and introduces the best way of executing it , so that the need is fulfilled immediately and effectively .
The process of developing a new product based on innovation is not an easy task for the innovators .
The innovators , who are normally work under Research and Development department , have to recognize the needs from the public or through research , are require to spend countless days and nights to understand the problems , to produce solutions to the problems , to convert the solutions into practical products and to commercialize them .
By diffusion and adoption of the innovation products by the public or specific users , the innovators have to face the consequences .
These are not the only challenges that the innovators are going to deal with .
In order to process from the initial stage of innovation development to the final stage , the most important issue is to have a huge sum of fund for development and commercial purposes .
So , the manufacture company , for example , the company that the innovators are working for , is one of the major investors that is providing the fund .
Innovators required development fund in order to obtain their needs , such as hardware equipments , to work on their prototypes .
But at times , there are some critical situations that happen or affect to the manufacturing company , the innovators somehow get to be involve too .
For example , if the manufacturing company did not earn profit in the market , then in order to reduce the cost and prevent the loss from getting worse , the manufacturing company has to stop funding the innovators for their prototypes development .
Then the innovators have to stop all works for the development .
For another example , during this recent economic downturn , most of the major manufacturing companies are slowing down in manufacturing productions and releasing of new products .
This shows that the manufacturing companies are trying to reduce the unnecessary burden to maintain the companies ' stand .
Therefore , this is one of the major factors that will definitely affect the innovators from developing innovation products .
Another challenge that the innovators need to be concern about is commercializing the finalize products .
In this final stage , it is all about how packaging , marketing and distribution of the products .
There are cases that marketing department do not wish to market the innovated products due to various reasons .
For example , the marketing department thinks that the innovated products are not relevant to what the company is selling .
Therefore , the innovated products are unable to meet the consumers .
Another example is the marketing department has set the price of the innovated product too high ; therefore , they fail to obtain the sales target for the selling the innovated product .
So , this is another major factor that the innovators have to face .
In brief , innovators have to face many challenges when they want to develop the products .
They have to obtain fund from the investors in order to develop their innovation prototypes and require help from the marketing department to have their innovation products for sales in the marketplace .
However , these procedures might become another challenges for the innovators .
Title : Obstacles for engineering design in China
Engineering design is defined as a process that brings ideas or theories into physical representations which satisfies human needs .
In an engineering design , there are usually five steps : define problems , gather related information , generate various solutions , analyze and select a solution and test and modify the solution .
Because Engineering designs are always related to real problem , during the five processes , the obstacles they face are more than theories and calculations on paper .
The obstacles for engineering designs may differ from nation to nation .
In my home country , China , the two most representative problems are political issues and financial issues .
Political issues usually become realized in the beginning and final steps , especially in the last step .
In the beginning step , we have to define the problem in a clear and unambiguous way .
Besides , a clear recognition of the real need is also important .
However , in some cities of China , the government wants to minimize the time spending on problem solving process to show their ability in handling problems and force the engineers to skip the first step or just accept the information the government provides .
And in the end such a design may turn to be useless as it does not meet people 's demand .
In the last step of design , political issues also disturb the process significantly .
For example , in my hometown Harbin , the government decided to develop an underground traffic system .
This design was welcomed by most of the citizens and the whole design process was carefully carried out .
However , when the design had been carried out for a few weeks , it was stopped .
The government 's explanation was because of safety consideration for earthquakes and some other disasters .
But such explanation was of non-sense as the engineers did not see such possibility during their designing ; otherwise the design would not be carried out at all .
Some evidences showed that the reason of halt of work was that the higher level of authorities thought an underground traffic system was not necessary for Harbin .
In this example , there is nothing wrong with the original design work , but the design still can not be carried out due to political inconsistent between the city government and higher level authorities .
The similarities of political obstacles in both two steps are that such problems can not be easily solved by the engineering group , in other words , the political problems are unavoidable to some degree .
Another problem , financial issue , is quite common during design process .
It affects the analyzing and test step most seriously though it can affect almost every step of design work .
For most design work , the engineers are always employed by some organizations or companies .
Without financial support , the collection of relative information and research of the various solutions have to be done in a simpler manner , and may lead to the final failure of a design project .
During these two steps , different solutions should be carried out in a smaller scale to examine their characteristics and to test their performance in order to make a decision .
If not enough fund is provided , the experiment may not be as precise as it should be to minimize the cost .
Such simplification may lead to an incorrect choice .
Besides , the lack of financial support or sudden stop in the financial support may even lead to the incomplete of a project .
For instance , there is one half-built bridge near my home .
It was hamstrung by lack of funds .
Compared to the political issues , the financial problem affects more steps and more common around the world .
But engineers still can do little to avoid such problems
In conclusion , the two most significant problems that hamper the engineering design process are political and financial problems .
Both of these two problems , though affecting different processes , can lead to a completely failure of a project .
Therefore , governments and authorities should pay more attention to these problems in order to get better design work for the country .
Legend has it that the world is created by God .
This may be true ; however , God did n't give us a perfect world .
Humankind always has needs and demands because people want to lead more comfortable and easier life .
So , they try to invent things which could help them achieve their goals .
Therefore , in modern society , engineering has become more important ; the role of an engineer is to design a safe and efficient product or a system that minimizes the damages to the environment or brings benefits to the human kind .
There are various fields which engineering plays an important role in our daily lives , such as entertainment , healthcare , transportation , real estate , and so on .
As what Khandani ( 2005 ) said , a company 's survival depends on whether its products are in high demand by the society or not .
Most companies are more interested to invent entertainment electronic goods such as flat LCD screens , smaller and smaller mp3/mp4 players , touch screen hand phones , more portable laptops , and so on which are most demanded in the market .
Though these products are highly sought-after and trendy , they are not the most essential things to people unlike healthcare products .
For example , a person can lead his life peacefully without a laptop or hand phone , but , can a person survive happily with the absence of good health ?
The answer should be 'No ' as health is the first priority in a person 's life .
If a person is feeling unwell , he will have no mood to enjoy any other facilities and products .
Thus , one current human need that should be given priority is nothing else than healthcare products .
Among quite a number of healthcare products available in market , prosthetic limbs play one the most important roles .
Prosthetic limbs are artificial legs or arms which replace the missing parts of the body .
They are needed for various reasons , including congenital defects , accidents or because of some diseases .
Losing a body part can make a person 's life miserable .
They may lose not only mobility but also self-confidence .
In this case , prosthetics limbs can help those disabled people to regain their mobility and confidence .
So , designing the prosthetic limbs should be encouraged as it can really change a person 's life .
According to Khandani ( 2005 ) ,to design an efficient and safe artificial limb may usually need five basic design processes which are defining the problem , gathering pertinent information , generating possible solutions , analyzing and selecting the best possible solution and finally testing and implementing it .
When defining the problem , the cost , safety and liability , comfort , ergonomic and simplicity must be taken into account .
For example , most of the disabled can not afford to spend a lot of money on those prosthetic limbs or some of them have an allergy to the materials used in the product .
Before considering the possible solutions , we need to collect all the information that relates to the problem so that we can avoid redefinition and wasting time .
After we confirm that the problem is real and a new solution is needed , we then proceed to step 3 in which we have to brainstorm the multiple solutions .
In this step , we can do it in two ways : to improve the existing idea by finding out the weaknesses or to come up with a totally new and creative idea by researching and testing .
Once we have alternative solutions to the design problem , we can analyze them and decide which one should be the most suitable for the needs .
Finally , we can implement and test the design we have chosen and if we find any problems , we can go back to step 4 and select another solution .
Well designed prosthetic legs can give a disabled person a new taste of life .
According to the article about an amputee sprinter , Oscar Pistorius , who does not have both legs but wants to take part in 2008 Olympics with his J-shaped blades ( artificial legs ) made of carbon fibers , confidently said that " there is nothing he can not do that able-bodied athletes can do .
" This is the proof that how a successful design can be beneficial to a needy person .
To sum up , apart from the prosthetic legs , there are still many other areas in healthcare industry that need to be improved such as artificial kidney , artificial hearts , pacemakers , medical imaging and diagnosis devices which are very advantageous to humankind .
Government should also more encouraging the research and development of these products .
With the systematic design processing , there will be more upcoming amazing healthcare products in the future .
In present days , engineers need to be creative and innovative in order to come up with new products .
However , there are many problems that will hinder the engineering design process .
We will focus our attention on the component decision process which will determine the type of raw materials to be used and the safety of the end product .
The cost of raw materials has risen significantly from the year 2003 to year 2009 and it has affected the electronics supply chain .
We will look at two very important components in the manufacture of electronic components , gold and copper .
The price of gold has risen from about US $ 380/troy ounce in June 2003 to about US $ 960/troy ounce in June 2009 ( " Trend " ) .1 Gold is a very important component in electrical conductivity and thus often used in contact points such as the communicating interface between the graphics card and the motherboard .
Hence designs that need large amount of gold may not be feasible .
Another component is copper .
Copper has good electrical conductivity which allows the conductor channel lengths and widths to be significantly reduced .
This results in faster operating speed and greater circuit integration .
However , the price of copper has risen from about US $ 1900/tonne in June 2003 to about US $ 6200/tonne in June 2009 ( " Trend " ) .1
When engineers turn to other types of cheaper materials , some functions and accuracy of the end product may be sacrificed .
However , if the engineers were to stick to their original design , the cost of the end product will be high .
The high cost of the product may deter possible customers and in the end , the profit of the company will drop .
Next we will look at product safety .
The main idea of safety in a product is to ensure that the utilization of the product does not cause any injury or death to the user .
One example would be the grounding of electronic devices .
When electronic devices are not grounded properly , there is a probability that the user might get an electric shock when he/she accidentally come into contact with the device .
If the current is very strong , there is even a chance that the user may die .
Another example would be the cases of Apple 's iPhone .
There are many reports around the internet and on newspaper stating that some users ' iPhone exploded and the main cause is due to the overheating of the lithium- ion battery .
Lithium-ion battery has a temperature tolerance of about 60OC and anything above that will make the battery unsafe for use and in the worst case scenario ; the battery explodes , causing injury or death to the user .
Hazardous product can tarnish the reputation of the company and sometimes even result in the loss of innocent lives .
Thus it is very important for engineers to do repeated trial test of the product to ensure that it is free of faults .
From the points above , we can see that due to the increasing price of raw materials , it is very difficult to come up with new products consistently as it is very costly to build them .
High selling price of the product will often deter potential customers and hence result in a fall of profit .
Lastly , engineers must ensure that the product must be safe to use or it will end up not only spoiling the reputation of the company , it may even injure or kill someone .
1 " Trends in the Costs of Raw Materials .
" 2003-2009
.
Engineering design process can be defined as a process fused by fellow engineers in the aid of developing either an entirely new system or improvising on the current on to cater to desired deeds .
This process has always been seen indispensable as part of the country 's economical growth in the manufacturing sector .
However , the results of the recent National Innovation System ( NIS ) survey show that Singapore has a long way to go in its development of an innovation-based economy , especially in comparison to the other OECD countries .
As we understand the relevance and importance of engineering design , we will come to realize that in reality there are several factors that preventing the progress of engineering design .
Firstly , engineering design process has come to incur excessive costs .
Due to high global demand in the world 's limited natural raw materials , the prices of copper and silicon have rocketed sky high .
Engineering processes for innovations such as the wafer fabrication and semi-conductor industries are directly affected by the prices of the raw materials .
As a result , research and development in these fields have become way costlier compared to previous years .
In Singapore , there is only a certain fixed amount in the country 's national budget allocated of the research and development sector .
It is more expensive to conduct creative engineering research ; therefore it is inevitable that a slight reluctance in contributing more assets to engineering design by the government ; the reality of the support given by the government is weak .
Moreover , the government has also other financial plans in spending their resources .
Some feel that in these tough economical times , it is wiser to splurge the money on restructuring the economy or providing more incentives to instill entrepreneurship , rather than investing in research in engineering design .
Hence , the area of innovative research and development in engineering is not driven in full swing .
Secondly , the amount of creative people in Singapore is small , which may be a major reason for the hampering of innovative engineering design .
The population of Singapore is scarce compared to other countries in the region .
In countries like China and India , their population amount to billions whereas the population of Singapore is only 4.5 million .
The fact that Singapore has limited human resource limits the number of creative people in the country .
For example , five percent of the population in Singapore is 1000 times lesser than five percent of the population in the China .
As a result , the number of creative Singaporeans would be much lower relative to other countries .
Although there are many Singaporean-based driven engineering design projects like NEWater plants , much of our economical success due to engineering design is highly dependent on other countries .
For example , most of our latest mass spectrometry equipment used in the area of engineering design is largely obtained from Germany .
In areas of mechanical engineering , our latest machineries are either bought or are replicas from the models in Japan .
The impact on having a limited amount of creative people has resulted in Singapore having to resort to buying foreign-based engineering design equipment from overseas .
In conclusion , even though we realize the importance of engineering design processes in innovation , there are still problems like rising costs and population scarcity problem that hinders the progress of the engineering process .
Serendipity is usually defined as a discovery under an accidental case , and it often results the invention of a new technology .
One typical example is the invention of " post-it " notes .
Serendipity-based technology has some similarities and differences with technology developed through research , for example : the technology of refrigerator .
Firstly , both serendipity-based technology and technology developed via research are initiated by the realization of problems and needs .
When people encounter problems or have demands on certain things , usually they will try to solve the problems through research and development .
The invention of refrigerator was around 1910s as before that , people had faced the problem of food storage in summer when there was no icehouse could be used .
Research and development had been done to solve this problem and eventually boosted the invention of refrigerator .
This is how most conventional technologies been invented .
Similarly , bearing the problems and needs in mind , when unexpected experiment or research results come up to the researchers or scientists , accidentally they would just apply these to solve some other problems totally unrelated .
Post-it note was invented in this way according to Rogers .
3M , famous Scotch tape company , discovered an unsuccessful bonding agent that could not stick paper tightly hundreds years ago .
However , the 3M researchers found out this failed bonding agent was suitable for attaching notes which satisfy many people 's needs .
Thus post-it note was invented from this idea .
In this manner , many other serendipitous technologies have been discovered and solved many irrelevant problems .
Thus , it is fair to say that either conventional technology or serendipitous technology is stimulated by the realization of problems and needs .
Also , another similarity between conventional technology and serendipitous technology is the process of development and commercialization .
After discovering the creative inventions from either research or serendipity , the more important step is the integration of the inventions .
Under this process , the attractiveness and practicality of the inventions will be improved such that they could be converted into useful products which accepted by most people .
If the refrigerator was remained as it was invented in 1910s and no further development has been made to improve its quality , the refrigerator would just be an unsuccessful invention due to its low efficiency and high cost .
After converting the new technology into useful products , it comes to the process of marketing .
How other people get to know your products and been convinced to use them .
Like what 3M researcher did , they sent their post-it products to Fortune 500 Company 's president and secretary to publicize their products .
Finally 3M achieved a huge success as its products were world-famous through Fortune 500 Company .
From these two examples above , it is clear that another similarity between conventional technology and serendipitous technology is the process of development and commercialization which involved a lot of hard work .
Besides the similarities , there are some differences between research-based technology and serendipitous technology .
Firstly and most significantly , for conventional technology , a process of research is required .
Research is usually based on certain organizations and it requires some time , funds and resources before the researchers can finally obtain the expected results .
For the invention of refrigerator , many companies like : General Electric , Kelvinator and Postum , did organized the research group to invent and develop refrigerator .
However , for serendipitous technology , research is not a necessary process .
Many new ideas may just generate from daily life , some mistakes made accidentally or during research for other technology .
For the post-it pads , its idea was just generated from the failed product when 3M researches tried to invent new bonding agent .
Also , serendipitous new ideas can be generated by anyone .
The only challenge is whether or not they can grab the opportunity and do further development to make the ideas into useful technologies .
Yet for conventional technology , it is limited to people with professional knowledge , like : researchers or scientists .
In conclusion , although serendipitous technology seems easier than research-based technology for research process , it still requires a lot of hard work to further develop it and one should acquire the essential knowledge before he know how the unexpected discoveries can been used to solve the problems we faced .
Thus , a serendipitous technology can be seen as a conventional technology with less research .
The Social Barrier for Innovation
With the rapid development of modern society , engineering innovation is of increasingly great importance to the global community and human beings .
In different parts of the world , however , there are various factors which slow down the process of industrial designing , and China , my home country , can not make an exception .
Compared to technical reasons , social reasons are the main obstacles for inventions , and finance and education stand out from all these reasons .
Concerning financial difficulty in engineering innovation , there are two aspects .
First of all , the biggest problem is the whole country lacking money .
As most people know , China , like most of the developing countries , is not as rich as the developed countries , such as Singapore .
Making creations is quite a money-consuming job , so engineers in China are faced with the difficulty that there is not enough money put into innovating industries .
The present focus of China is the efficiency of production .
Thus , more resources are distributed to production instead of innovation .
Besides the first problem , the second one related to finance is that the average income of common Chinese people is relatively low .
An industrial invention needs users immediately after it is created by engineers or it may soon fall out of the market and then eliminated by the society .
Chinese engineers are not short of fantastic innovating ideas but market .
The electrical and the gas cars have been applied for some time .
Over 10 years ago , some states in the U.S. decided that 10 % of the total number of cars must be environmentally friendly , that is to say , cars running on electricity or gas .
( Rogers , 2003 ) Up to now , in China , only some public buses in Beijing run on gas whose fuel is supported by the government .
This comparison does not mean that Chinese people are ignoring the environment but most of us can not afford an electrical or a gas car which is far more expensive than a common one using gasoline as fuel .
Very similar to the non- polluting cars , China also has lots of creative engineering innovations , but due to higher cost than old products of the same kind , they can not be accepted by the market .
This problem greatly slows down the pace of creation and invention in China .
Apart from finance , education is another factor that can not be ignored .
The Chinese education has a history of over 2000 years .
Through the thousands of years , most Chinese scholars are greatly affected by the Confucianism .
One of the core theories is to teach people to obey the rules and regulations .
Innovation , to some degree , is like breaking the old rules and regulations and creating something new .
This is , in fact , not encouraged by the traditional idea of Chinese people .
As a result , people with Chinese educational background tend to apply the old inventions better than create new ones by themselves .
It is very complicated to find out reasons hindering innovation in China while finance and education do have some effect on it .
Despite the obstacles mentioned above , China is now moving its focus to build an innovation-encouraged society .
I believe these problems obstructing engineering innovation will be solved in the near future .
Reference : 1 .
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
Opinion leaders and mavens in the diffusion of electric cars .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.87-89 ) .
New York : Free Press .
2 .
Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Retrieved June 29 , 2009 , from http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
In today 's context where failures are condemned and successes are applauded , scientists , researchers and engineers are expected to discover new technologies and innovations which are exact and practical the first time round .
This is also illuminated in organisations and bureaucracies , which are structured to provide stability and continuity , being inflexible towards nurturing innovations ( Rogers , 2003 ) because failures will tarnish their reputations .
Henceforth , inventors with company leaders begin to adopt a secretive approach towards inventions and they go " underground " for research and development .
This is termed as skunkwork .
Understanding the differences and similarities between such a path that inventors take and conventionally generated technologies will help us to better appreciate their efforts & the hardships they had to go through in their endeavours .
Despite their seemingly fishy name , skunkworks are actually maintained and driven by professional individuals , highly trained in specific fields , similar to personnel who are involved in conventionally generated technologies .
During the pioneer year of the National University of Singapore 's Formula Society of Automotive Engineering ( NUS FSAE ) , outstanding undergraduates who show exceptional talents and skills among their peers were being selected to work on a new project of building an eco-friendly race car to compete on the international platform .
Having considered the uncertainties and their inexperience towards the new project , the team had to keep a low profile and work behind closed doors as the university 's reputation was at stake if they were to fail .
Another similarity between skunkworks and conventionally generated technologies will be that both are given adequate funds and resources by the authority to maintain their operations .
Being a highly classified project , the Lockheed 's Advanced Development Projects Division , a American aerospace company was funded by the government to develop the latest aircraft to fight in World War two ( Roger , 2003 ) .
Likewise , the Singapore government has also invested heavily on the transportation system in her plan to build better and cost efficient MRT stations over the next 6 years ( STBT , September 2009 ) .
The provision of funds and resources are critical towards the productivity of researches and innovations .
However , in order to escape routine organizational procedures , inventors and researches working in skunkwork environment are more often abused in contrast to the people working under conventional system .
This is because , with little supervision , working conditions and workplace safety are often unregulated and compromised .
The creation of the Macintosh was the collaborated effort of fifty computer designers who worked day and night under an abusive and aggressive leadership ( Roger , 2003 ) .
On the other hand , under the conventional system , innovators are supposed to abide to strict workplace safety , guidelines and routine organizational procedures .
They work under conducive environment to accomplish their tasks .
To conclude , both skunkworks and conventionally generated technologies are undertaken by a group of professionals who are given adequate funds and resources .
However , they receive different forms of treatments and work under different environments .
This is to meet the society 's expectation for them to come out with inventions which are correct the first time round .
References Roger , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations , 8 Straits Times Business Times ( September 2009 ) .
Two downtown line contracts awarded .
doi : STBT000020090901e5920000k
From past to present , many important innovations have surfaced .
Some of these innovations were shaped by technology while others were created from the needs and desires of society .
A crucial invention which has eased man 's ways of living is the aircraft .
According to ( AVIATION , 2009 ) " Centuries of dreaming preceded the first successful flight " which suggests that the basis of this innovation was from man 's dream to fly like birds they see in the sky .
Hence aircrafts were a socially determined technology which has developed over time , catering to the needs of humanity .
Firstly , military aspects were crucial in shaping the aircraft .
Planes of present versus those in the past show a noticeable improvement in agility and speed .
In World War I ( WWI ) for example , planes were fairy slower and more bulky , as mentioned by ( AVIATION , 2009 ) " Huge biplane bombers with two , three , or four engines were introduced in World War I " .
However , the military learnt from the fighting techniques used in combats during WWI and required aircrafts able to negotiate tighter turns and break the speed of sound so as to evade enemies or catch up with them .
World War Two showed improvements in the design and ability of aircrafts , making them smaller and therefore swifter .
Adding on , fighters of today are even more advanced and able to break the sound barrier .
Take for example the " F-15 Eagle , which excels at air-to-air defence tactics and has a maximum speed of over Mach 2.5 " or " the F-16 Falcon , a highly maneuverable all-purpose fighter-bomber " ( AIRPLANE , 2009 ) .
These planes are not only a mark of development in speed but also in agility .
Most importantly , we see that these needs of the military were a driving force behind the development and enhancement of the aircraft .
Secondly , social factors guided the growth of planes .
The globalised style of living which translates to the need to transport increasingly large numbers of passengers , and the need for fast delivery of goods or letters were some of the social issues that shaped the airplanes .
It is noticeable that the size of commercial planes increased over the years in the response to meet the rise in global travelers .
In the 1930 's , a DC-3 " carried 21 passengers " ( Commercial Aviation ) , while in the late 1950 's , the " DC-8 could carry 258 passengers " ( Commercial Aviation ) .
If we look at Airbus ' A380 in our world today , it carries up to " 525 " passengers ( A380 Family , 2009 ) .
A logical rationale for the creation of such a large capacity airplane would be the increased demand in air travel due to globalisation .
Moreover , the U.S. Post Office Department set the base for domestic airlines between 1918 and 1927 as mentioned by ( AIRPLANE , 2009 ; Commercial Aviation ) .
Likewise , in today 's world , global air freight agencies such as " DHL " or " Fedex " require planes able to travel long distances fast in order to ensure that mails or packages are delivered to end users in the shortest time possible .
Therefore , it is evident that globalisation and the need to send parcels swiftly to customers have in a way shaped aircrafts .
In conclusion , the aircraft , a socially determined technology , has developed from its ancient clumsy and slow predecessors to their new age , swift and agile successors .
These modifications were indeed not possible if not for the varying social as well as military requirements during different eras .
Sources : AVIATION, .
( 2009 ) .
History.com .
Retrieved 14 : 47 , Sep 4 , 2009 , from http : //www.history.com/encyclopedia.do ? articleId = 201891 .
AIRPLANE, .
( 2009 ) .
History.com .
Retrieved 15 : 00 , Sep 4 , 2009 , from http : //www.history.com/encyclopedia.do ? articleId = 200465 .
Commercial Aviation ( no year mentioned ) The history of aviation Retrieved 00 : 20 , Sep 5 , 2009 , from http : //history.sandiego.edu/gen/st/ ~ jgaffney/aviation/commercial.html
A380 Family ( 2009 ) Airbus.com Retrieved 00 : 50 , Sep 5 , http : //www.airbus.com/en/aircraftfamilies/a380/index2.html # 1
When there is a need for something , a technology is create to solve the problem .
The same applies for an eco-friendly car .
There are many factors that contribute to the creation of the eco-friendly car .
The factors are - political , economical , technological , environmental and social .
In 2006 , a documentary film , An Inconvenient Truth , written by former United States Vice President Al Gore , has sparked a series of heated discussions after it was being screened in cinemas .
It sent a message to the world about the drastic environmental changes due to decades of environmental abuse by mankind and what will happen if we choose to ignore this issue .
Subsequent actions were taken by the American government to administer a regulation that car companies could only sell ninety percent of cars with normal machinations while the other ten percent had to be eco friendly cars .
This implies that automobile companies had to pull in large sums of money for research and development work to create and promote the sales of such cars .
Without pressure from the government , no automobile company would have taken the initiative to manufacture and market out these vehicles .
Economic factors stressed the need for eco-friendly cars .
However the cost to finance this project will be high as much research and development have to be done .
Even though it is expensive to develop eco-friendly cars as they cost around two to three times more compared to gasoline powered cars ; however this move is vital due to the slow depletion of natural resources for vehicle consumption as it leads to the increment of fuel prices .
In the long run , it will not be economically viable to own a gasoline powered car .
The servicing costs are lower for eco-friendly cars that operate on electricity as compared to gasoline powered automobile with internal combustion engines .
Compared to the fuel powered car , the eco-friendly car is at a losing end due to its speed , its mileage and time taken for battery charging .
Fuel powered cars are capable of running longer distances , do not require battery charging time and is capable of reaching maximum speeds within seconds .
However , eco-friendly car developers are constantly coming up with newer technologies to improve their cars hence in the near future these cars would definitely function just as well as the gasoline powered cars .
One of the main purposes of the creation of eco friendly cars is due to environmental factors .
The need to reduce pollution levels plays a very important role .
Since the past decade , people are getting more conscious of the damages that we have been inflicting to the Earth .
As mentioned , the Inconvenient Truth has shown that there is a direct link between carbon emissions and the rising temperatures of the Earth .
Statistics have shown that in the past century , carbon emissions have sky rocketed to ridiculously high levels and carbon emissions mainly comes from us humans when we burn fossil fuels for our own usage .
As carbon dioxide " stocks up " in the atmosphere over years , it traps the Sun 's heat , thus creating global warming which eventually leads to various climate changes .
Using eco- friendly cars would reduce the carbon emissions per car drastically .
One of the first things we can do to help conserve the environment is to switch from gasoline cars to eco-friendly cars , that is if we already a car .
As awareness of the effects of climate changes grows , people realize that it is their social responsibility to try to undo the environment damages to the best their ability .
Hence more people are seeking for greener alternatives .
Even British Prime Minister , Gordon Brown has urged that all cars in Britain to be green by 2020 .
In conclusion , the creation of eco-friendly cars are shaped by the factors mentioned above and I believe that not only this creation is one of a kind ; it is here to stay and also one of the key creations for the future generations to further develop .
In this rapid economic development of the 21st century , the demand for energy is increasing .
However , the Earth can only provide our limited energy .
We can not increase the amount of fossil fuel use .
Dwindling reserves of fossil fuels on the basis that no matter how slow this process may be , we need to look at other ways to produce energy .
Hence , the use of renewable energy is very important , in our planet 's future development .
There many alternative source of energy can be used and applied in our life , such as solar energy , light energy , wind energy , water power and so on .
All of these alternative sources of energy not only help reduce our dependence on non-renewable energy sources , but also these renewable energy power generation processes are friendlier environment .
Currently , people realise the features of environmental protection and the economical efficiency of the solar energy ; the use of solar energy is made use of more and more widespread in the ordinary life .
Energy from the sun 's rays is known a very environmentally friendly which is a clean form of energy .
In order to produce electricity or thermal energy , only the sunlight is needed .
There is no need to use sunlight to generate electricity with fossil fuels , or thermal energy ; only a solar collector and solar panels are needed to energy into electricity .
Another advantage is that it costs less than conventional power generation and heating .
The feature of heating energy not only can help people save a lot of money for conventional electricity .
In return a lower tariff will be received , but also means that no need to have to maintain the heaters .
However , solar energy is not in the evening , so that energy storage is an important issue to provide a continuous supply of energy .
In order to keep providing heating , there is an efficient method to store solar energy by using heat-of-fusion units which use chemicals to change water to a solid form .
This is similar to a packed bed , but the liquid absorbs the sun 's rays and then the chemicals convert the liquid to a solid so it traps the energy .
Then the incidental heat traps are installed to warm the floor and house .
A stone floor is required so that the heat can come into the window and be absorbed into the stone floor .
The floor is warm during the day but cools in the evening as the heat from the floor rises up and warms the house during the evening .
Although there is a limitation of requiring stone floor for those people whose floors are wooden , for most people research objectives , this method can gain the most efficient result .
Engineering Design Processes Help Solve the Problem of Energy Shortage
The 21st century is faced with a severe problem of global energy shortage .
Industries require resources such as electricity , oil and petroleum for varies outputs .
The rate of energy consumption by human is much higher than what nature is able to produce .
Therefore , the last decade has witnessed the increasing energy price due to insufficient supply of energy .
For example , the oil price increased from $ 15.77/bbl in 1998 to $ 91.35/bbl in 2008 ( InflationData.com ) .
The 479 % jump within 10 years implies that actions must be taken to solve the problem .
According to Khandani ( 2005 ) , engineering design activities are conducted in order to meet human needs .
In response to energy shortage , engineers design more efficient products and systems .
Among the solutions such as establishing energy-intense industry and recycling natural resources , finding alterative resources seems to be the best solution to provide sustainable supply of energy for varies industries .
To begin with , there are many possibilities for alternative energy resources .
Natural movements such as tide , wind and wave can all be used for generating power .
The solar technology , which converts the radiant light from the Sun into heat , can also be applied to many industries .
Nuclear power is more widely accepted and used as well .
International energy agency reports that 2.1 % of energy and 15 % of electricity are provided worldwide by nuclear power in the year 2005 ( Key World Energy Statistics , 2007 ) .
It shows that nuclear power may gradually replace traditional oil and petroleum .
Furthermore , non-traditional renewable energy such as hydrogen fuel and biodiesel are studied by engineering researchers and they may be put into practice for real industries someday in the future .
Although it seems very optimistic that many potential alternative energy resources can be found , there are , in fact , other economic and social constrains faced by engineers .
First of all , the costs of new energies , such as solar electricity are much higher , compared with traditional ones .
Second , alternative energy development may cause unexpected pollutions .
For instant , in the process of consuming hydrogen fuel , greenhouse gasses will be generated , which may contribute to global warming .
Third , natural energy resources such as wind energy and wave power can only be used in large countries with sufficient land and water ; thus , small countries may encounter energy dependence on outer resource and forced to pay much more for energy supply .
To further improve the solution of solving the problem of energy shortage by using alternative energies , it requires more efforts by engineers .
A more efficient way of generating renewable energy needs to be developed in order to lower the market price .
Zero carbon technology is encouraged in response to the concern of climate change .
To conclude , engineering design process can be applied to help solve the current problem of global energy shortage .
A variety of natural and renewable energies can be considered as alternative energy resources .
If engineers are capable of introducing environmental friendly energies with reasonable cost and sufficient quality , we can expect a future balance between energy consumption and energy supply .
References :
Historical Crude Oil Prices ( Table ) .
Inflationdata.com .
Retrieved 4 September 2009 from { http : //www.inflationdata.com/inflation/Inflation_Rate/Historical_Oil_Prices_Table.asp } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.inflationdata.com/inflation/Inflation_Rate/Historical_Oil_Prices_Table.asp ]
{ Key World Energy Statistics .
( 2007 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.iea.org/textbase/nppdf/free/2007/key_stats_2007.pdf ] ) .
{ International Energy Agency } [ HYPERLINK : http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Energy_Agency ] .
Retrieved 4 September 2009 from { http : //www.iea.org/textbase/nppdf/free/2007/key_stats_2007.pdf } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.iea.org/textbase/nppdf/free/2007/key_stats_2007.pdf ] .
Khandani .
S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering Design Process .
Retrieved 29 June , 2009 from http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
Technologies are always developed to cater certain needs of people , whether to provide better methods of doing things or to develop tools that facilitate working and living .
Technologies are also consistently refined to meet changing needs of customers .
This also applies to virtual technology , which was developed under a specific social and technological background and was evolved to meet increasing needs under a changing environment .
Virtual technology was first developed to address needs of extensive communications .
By the 20th century , with the development of modern technology , communications had been made more and more convenient .
Such excitements brought by modern technologies had boomed the demand for more extensive interactions , not only with friends but also with strangers .
At the same time , new technologies had also brought privacy into people 's consideration .
Thus , it was not surprised to observe an increasing need for a convenient and cost effective platform where a large group of people are able to communicate , transcending geographic barriers , while retaining a certain level of independence and privacy at the same time .
To address such increasing social needs , the concept of a virtual world was taken into consideration .
Virtual technology has been designed with a series of unique properties to address the observed social needs by engaging a large user population .
A multi-user online environment was created , allowing a large group of people to get connected at the same time .
This has made interactions among a great number of users become possible .
The user-friendly operation platform designed has made virtual world more accepted by the public and the simplified operation process has also made virtual technology more adaptable to lay men .
In addition , with the establishment of facilities and the popularization of computers , virtual technology has become more and more accessible and has engaged increasing number of people .
The low cost of virtual technology , as compared with that of other types of communications such as telephone , has also attracted numerous users .
As social environment changed , the initial virtual technology developed had become insufficient to meet increased social needs .
Virtual technology was hence refined to meet the evolving needs .
Factors such as the business environment , changing educational styles and new military demands have shaped the development of virtual technology and solutions made used of virtual technology were designed to address each specific need .
The development of virtual technology has been largely influenced by the world 's booming economics since early 21st century .
New technologies had made people realize the underlying economic opportunities beyond geographic barriers and national boundaries .
People were looking for more convenient and cost effective methods for transactions and business cooperation .
Catering to this need , a series of solutions has been developed based on virtual technology .
One of them was E-commerce where a virtual interface was created for convenient and efficient transactions of goods and services .
Another example would be E-conferencing which allows a staff to attend live conferences during business trips and has made business process much more efficient .
Virtual technology has also been developed to meet educational needs .
This is especially applied to places where educational resources are limited due to geographic barriers .
E-learning has provided an alternative way to attending lessons conducted by teachers in classrooms .
It has not only made education in such areas possible but also made education more cost effective .
In addition , E-learning has developed a new style of education where self-initiated learning is advocated .
Another example of virtual technology being developed to meet educational needs would be business simulation games where the real business environment is simulated and students can learn from imitated real-life practice .
Such business simulation games have been largely used as innovative learning tools in world 's business schools .
Apart from the demands from business and education , other factors have also shaped the development of virtual technology and solutions have been designed to meet the needs .
An example could be the virtual training used by the U.S. army where military demands have shaped the development of virtual technology .
To sum up , virtual technology , like other types of technologies , was determined socially and was evolved to meet changing needs of the society .
The development of virtual technology is shaped by social factors such as the business environment , educational needs and military demands .
This is because technologies are meant to serve people .
Hence , only those innovations and technologies that solve social problems and cater to social needs are considered to be meaningful .
The sustainable development of China 's economy largely depends on the progress of science and technology .
Meanwhile , the level of development of science and technology is an important symbol on behalf of a country 's strength .
" Innovation " is a popular word around the world these days , and there are myriad of facts to show the importance of scientific and technical innovation .
However , problems inevitably generate and affect the process of innovation due to the improper strategies or methods .
As far as I can concern , there are two major problems in China .
One is that some engineering designs do not meet the needs of market .
In other words , these designs are produced without adequate market survey , so they turn out to be unwelcomed among public .
Though the designs are products of fantastic conception , they become useless as rubbish once out of market .
After the policy of reform and opening-up , Chinese government has long been encouraging people to make varieties of innovations .
Nevertheless , it does not mean that whatever designs can be made .
The key is still the needs of market .
In addition , among all applicants of patents , individuals are the major part .
Individual has an obvious disadvantage compared with teamwork , and that is to say individual can not handle everything well at the same time .
Without market survey and access to sale or adoption of the market , it is inadvisable to make deigns blindly by divorcing oneself from reality .
No amount of them is meaningful .
The second problem to hamper engineering design process that I can concern is the patent policy .
China has long been a great country of patents , but the success of patents is quite rare .
The basic reason is many patents do not have the preconditions to commercialize themselves .
Most Chinese patents are " Appearance Patent " , not " Innovation Patent " .
Appearance patent is a rather tough issue and among patent infringement in China , more than 90 % belong to this kind .
What I have to point out is , appearance patent application does not need to be censored .
As long as the application documents meet the format , the patent will be approved .
The rapid application for patents causes large numbers of patent infringement cases .
Statistics show that , " just in 2005 , China 's public security organs at various levels arrested more than 45 thousand suspects for IP infringement and people 's courts at various levels accepted 3567 criminal cases at the first instance .
" Now the disputes of patents have been the most serious trouble for the normal development of some companies .
Good patents are probably killed in research stage .
The condition in developed countries may be different .
For example , in America , all patents must be censored and the cases of patent infringement are fewer than China .
Normally the lawsuits of patent infringement can be settled out of court due to the high cost and complicated procedures .
While in China , with simple procedure and low cost , lawsuits of patent infringement even become a tool to make unfair competition between companies .
Chinese government also pays attention to reforming the patent law and the new law will be put into practice on October .
In conclusion , China is sparing no efforts to solve problems in order to make innovations real intellectual product .
The principles are establishing a perfect patent system based on the market need .
The emphasis should be put on the propaganda of intellectual rights protection , so that people can understand its importance and learn to protect their rights .
Problems hamper engineering design processes of innovations in China and the effects
Every country will encounter problems in their development .
As a developing country , now China is facing problems on many fields .
This essay discusses two problems which significantly hamper engineering design processes of innovations in China .
The two problems are the situation of education and public policy on industry .
The problems bring some effect on engineering design from two aspect , independent innovation and engineering application .
First , the situation of education in China is a problem for innovation .
It is accepted that Chinese student are good at science .
They have solid foundation on math and physics , they can solve complex and difficult problems in short time .
However , these are just results of long-term training .
China 's education is typical exam-oriented education .
Now , this situation has become a problem for the nation that the generation at present age is lack of creativity and innovation ability .
In China 's education system , students are only required to receive knowledge and repeat exercising to consolidate knowledge but neglect to explore .
Chinese students are taught to remember many formulas and { solution approach } [ HYPERLINK : dict : //key.0895DFE8DB67F9409DB285590D870EDD/solution % 20approach ] es rather than ask questions .
Under this mode of education for long time , people 's thinking is limited and rigid .
The president of { Chinese University of Science and Technology } [ HYPERLINK : dict : //key.0895DFE8DB67F9409DB285590D870EDD/Chinese % 20University % 20of % 20Science % 20and % 20Technology ] pointed that students ' lacking of innovation would become the bottleneck of development of China in the future CITATION You05 \ l 2052 ( You , 2005 ) .
Besides , there are still many inadequacies in the policy of science and industry .
In China , economic policy is very wide but policy on industry is strict .
For example , investment and concerns that the nation put on technology research and engineering are deficient ( Xin , 2005 ) .
Engineering design is inventions-devices which need many support to gather technologies and solve problems in practice .
However , the policy of engineering and industry can not meet the needs .
The state only put investment on specialized research institutes .
In the actual production and application , the support from government is not nearly enough .
The two problems would bring some effects on engineering design and innovation for China .
First , under the mode of education , most engineers and scientist are relatively weak at creativity .
This will directly affects the process on engineering design of innovation especially on raising solutions .
In the technological age , since independent innovation is very important to a nation 's development , society needs the people with innovative talent .
Engineers need to generate multiple solutions based on different conditions instead of merely learning from other countries ' research and findings .
If engineers do not come up with new ideas , they can not find best solution for the problems .
Moreover , the policy on science and engineering also affects process of engineering application due to insufficient investment in research and engineering practice .
Engineers can not use the most advanced equipment to do analysis and testing .
Many theories can not be put into implement .
As a result , the engineering design would be in slow progress and there are still a lot of complex problems left unsolved .
In conclusion , the structure of education and policy on engineering and industry are two significant problems which hamper engineering design process of innovation in China .
If engineers are in defect of creativity and innovation , it is difficult for them to study new issues and make improvement .
At the same time , without enough support , development of engineering design would proceed slowly .
References : You , X .
( 2005 , October 25 ) .
Reasons of Chinese students lacking of innovativle ability .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from USTC News : { http : //news1.ustc.edu.cn/Article_Show.asp ? ArticleID = 7635 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //news1.ustc.edu.cn/Article_Show.asp ? ArticleID = 7635 ] Xin .
( 2005 , Febarary 18 ) .
What hinders research and development in China .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from China Science Network : http : //www.sciencenet.cn/htmlnews/2008218142630429201439.html
Two problems hamper engineering design and innovation in China
China , for decades , has been called " world factory " by the rest of the world .
Since the economic downturn spread all over the world , China has been regarded as the engine that will pull the world out of recession .
Although China is expected to prosper by a lot of people and countries , there are still problems that hamper its development .
This article will focus on two major problems that hamper innovational process of engineering in China and their impact on certain stage of the process .
The first problem that hampers design and innovation in China is China 's low-end industrial structure .
China industry is mostly at the lower end of the world production chain , which means the production in China is energy- consuming , labour-intensive , but not so profitable .
Although China devotes a lot of resources into production , the added value for innovation is low .
For example , a factory in southeast China produces toys for a Japanese company and these toys are sold to North America .
Out of 10 dollars made , this factory only have 1 dollar , while the Japanese company gets 9 .
The reason why this factory gets so little is that the design belongs to that Japanese company .
What this factory does is simply producing the toys .
In reality , there are thousands of such factories in China , which reflects the situation of China 's low-end industrial structure .
As a consequence of China 's low-end production which gains profit from mass production and resource consumption , China companies mainly focus on lowering cost , rather than creating innovative ideas .
Therefore , very little money is devoted to design process for innovation and these companies only repeat this low-end production circle .
In addition to China 's low-end industrial structure , the bad situation of intellectual property protection also hampers engineering innovational process .
In China intellectual property right is not well-protected .
People can find pirate version of software in most cities .
There are some products which directly copy the design of foreign companies .
Due to certain reasons , this situation is not expected to improve a lot in the near future .
Since the right of inventors and innovators is not well-protected , people are unwilling to create new products .
Therefore , innovation is discouraged by lack of protection for intellectual property in society .
To sum up , China 's low-end industrial structure and bad situation of intellectual property protection are the two major problems that hamper engineering design process in China .
Low-end production pattern makes companies focus on cutting cost , rather than making innovation , while lack of protection for innovation makes people unwilling to generate new ideas .
When China tries to promote engineering design process for innovations , these are the two problems China should tackle .
Reference Idris , M. ( 2009 ) .
Design in China .
Retrieved September 5 , 2009 , from http : //mootee.typepad.com/innovation_playground/design-in-china/ Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Retrieved June 29 , 2009 , from http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136-157 ) .
New York : Free Press .
On September 4th , 2009 , a piece of startling news was popped up and quickly spread out all over the world .
After several years ' effort , magnetic monopole was detected by the researchers from the Helmholtz- Zentrum Berlin fur Materialien und Energie have , in cooperation with colleagues from Dresden , St. Andrews , La Plata and Oxford ( Magnetic Monopoles Detected In A Real Magnet For The First Time , 2009 ) .
Obviously , the discovery of magnetic monopole indicated a great progress in pyhsics field .
People may think about what led the success of the discovery of magnetic monopole .
Generally speaking , the development of technologies is always viewed as technologically determined or socially determined .
In this case , the discovery of magnetic monopole was most likely to be promoted by advanced technologies .
However , social determinist , which can be defined as technology is boosted by social factors , is also an important factor in the development of technologies .
To specify , social determinist can be further categorized into several distinguished factors , such as economic factors , military demands , and government policies .
Nowadays it is common to see a person carry a laptop everywhere , which was unimaginable thirty years ago .
While , the appearance of laptop was due to the working demands from workers in company .
During the old days , there was no laptop , but got only desktop that workers had to share one machine to do their mass work , which caused great inconvenience .
In order to solve this problem , a person called Mizoguchi in Toshiba Company came up with the idea of inventing laptop ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
With the help of engineers , he finally invented the laptop that we use every day now , and undoubtedly , his achievement made a great success in computer marketing .
Till now , laptop is still a necessary tool in people 's daily life .
One of the reasons for its success was that laptop catered to people 's needs greatly .
Thus , after briefly viewing the development of laptop , we can conclude that , the appearance of this marvelous invention was initially driven by the demands of people , and then its development was supported by technologies .
For many years , people have always been trying to come up with some technical innovations to be environmentally beneficial .
Naturally , electric cars were invented .
Instead of using gasoline , electric cars used only battery power , which no more caused air pollution and reduced the cost as well ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
However , in the consideration that electric cars could not travel far distance , and it was not convenient to get battery charged , electric cars finally lost out in the market , due to the restriction of usefulness .
Nevertheless , electric cars is still regarded as a great trial innovation , which still need further technology support to make improvement .
From the examples in the context above , we can conclude that generally , the development of technology is determined by both technological factors as well as social factors .
More precisely , the appearance of a new innovation is initially motivated by socially determinist , and then it needs technological support in the process of development .
Last but least , any technology must be well designed using advance technology skills , otherwise it will most likely to lose out in the market .
References Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres ( 2009 , September 4 ) .
Magnetic Monopoles Detected In A Real Magnet For The First Time .
ScienceDaily .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from http : //www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/09/090903163725.htm Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
Opinion leaders and mavens in the diffusion of electric cars .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.87-89 ) .
New York : Free Press .
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The birth of the laptop computer at Toshiba .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.144- 146 ) .
New York : Free Press .
Solar Cars Alleviate Global Warming
According to Khandani ( 2005 ) , inventions are actually accumulated on the basis of original technologies which aim to satisfy people 's needs .
This is undoubtedly true because that inventions throughout history have greatly improved the quality of people 's lives , and people 's endless desires have stimulated development of new technologies .
In the 21st century , new desires , as well as new problems have emerged , such as environment pollution , bionics , exploration of outer-space and so on .
Among all of these needs , the most urgent and necessary technologies should be the ones that cope with the effect of global warming .
Indeed , the overwhelming effects of rising temperatures and average sea-levels have threatened the survival of humans possibly in the near future .
In recent years , numerous hypotheses and inventions have been raised .
Among the possible solutions to global warming , the prior technology that should be developed is solar cars , because it could not only effectively reduce the emission of greenhouse gases , but also take advantages of natural resources .
Firstly , using solar cars could effectively reduce the emission of greenhouse gases , especially carbon dioxide .
It is stated that a significant parf of carbon dioxide emission is due to burning of fossil fuels , such as gasoline and natural gases .
( What is the best possible solution to stop global warming ? , para .
1 ) Thus , continuing to use large number of traditional cars would deteriorate the environment at a shocking rate .
In contrast , solar cars use solar energy which is clean and environmentally-friendly .
Moreover , solar cars take advantages of solar energy which is approachable.and cheap .
In this way , people no longer have to worry about the exhaust of gasoline resources .
Besides , using solar energy actually cost nothing , which ensures that solar cars could be affordable in the long run .
However , solar cars are still not popular in the market due to the high cost of production and low feasibility .
Thus , popularizing solar cars requires lowering the price and enlarging the capacity of solar battery .
Actually , it is not easy to lower the price of solar cars since currently the materials used to make solar cars are high-tech aero-materials which are quite expensive .
Therefore , in order to lower the cost of production of solar cars , development of new materials is crucial .
Besides , the current development of solar battery is not good enough to afford long-distance driving .
Though newly developed solar battery can support hundreds of miles , it requires a rather critical weather extremely sunny days .
In conclusion , replacing traditional cars by solar cars can effectively control the deterioration of global warming , but further improvements are needed to widely popularize the use of solar cars .
References Khandani , S. ( 2005 , August ) .
Background .
Engineering Design Process .
1 ( 2 ) , 4 .
What is the best possible solution to stop global warming ?
( n.d. ) .
A Cooler Climate Website .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : // www.acoolerclimate.com/ Articles/SimplestSolutionToStopGlobalWarming.html
" Air pollution is responsible for 310,000 premature deaths in Europe each year .
" ( " Air pollution causes early death , " 2005 ) To many people , they may not think much about air pollution because they could hardly feel the effects of it .
However results have proven otherwise .
Which is why , better air quality is one of human need that should be given priority .
Air pollution is the main reason why the world is suffering from bad air quality thus we should look at ways to cut down on air pollutants emission .
There are some current solutions available such as ; primary regulations , control devices , increased fuel efficiency .
However , air pollution still persists .
Hence we should look at other alternatives like engineering design processes that might provide a solution .
Engineering design processes such as ; improve on battery technology for automobiles , and design better control devices can be the solution .
Air pollution has led to health issues like respiratory diseases and premature deaths .
According to the Environmental Protection Agency ( 2008 ) , " on average , each of us breathes over 3,000 gallons of air each day .
" This means if the air is polluted , everyone will be affected .
These air pollutants are transmitted through air thus the toxic air pollutants produced from one country would affect its neighbouring countries as well .
Health issues caused by air pollution not only affect the individual but also to the world economy because those who are affected will not be able to work .
In order to solve the problem of air pollution , we got to improve on the current battery technology and come up with better control devices .
Improve on the current battery technology is one of the engineering design process to solve air pollution .
A recent report from Toronto Public Health ( 2007 ) , " traffic related air pollution contributes to about 440 premature deaths and 1,700 hospitalizations per year in Toronto .
" Most of these traffic emissions are produced from the combustion engine of gasoline vehicles .
However , gasoline vehicles are still higher in demand as compared to non gas emission vehicles , electric vehicles .
The reasons are ; short lifespan for the battery , maximum distance travelled before recharging is relatively short , relatively more costly .
According to Environmed Research ( 2009 ) , " Batteries are heavy , wear out quickly with repeated recharging and require expensive , rather scarce materials such as lithium .
" By improving the battery technology to meet these shortcomings , the world will be willing to switch to electric cars , the more environmental friendly chose .
Besides improving on the current battery technology , designing better control devices will be another engineering solution for industrial purposes .
Emissions from power plants contribute to over 2,800 lung cancer deaths and 38,200 heart attacks annually in the US ( " Deadly power plants ? , " 2004 ) .
Air pollutants from industrial sources made up to more than half of man-made emission .
Some of the current control devices available are scrubbers and nitrogen oxide control devices .
For scrubbers , there are external and system parameters that are affecting the efficiency .
Thus , it is not available to maximise its capabilities .
As for nitrogen oxide control devices , the cost of effective devices like the Selective Catalytic Reduction is extremely high .
Therefore , coming up with scrubbers and nitrogen oxide control devices that are more cost and control efficient will definitely reduce a significant amount of pollutants emission .
In conclusion , even though there are many solutions for air pollution available , the world is still suffering from bad air quality which leads to many health issues .
Engineering design processes are able to provide the world with effective solutions like better battery technology and control devices that will improve the air quality of the world .
With the air quality improved , the world will be able to lead a clean and healthier life .
References
Air pollution causes early deaths .
( 2005 , February 21 ) .
BBC news .
Retrieved from http : //news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/4283295.stm .
Deadly power plants ?
Study fuels debate .
( 2004 , June 9 ) .
MSNBC .
Retrieved September 09 , 2009 from http : //www.msnbc.msn.com/id/5174391/
Environmental Protection Agency .
( 2008 , August 30 ) .
Why Should You Be Concerned About Air Pollution ?
The Plain English Guide to the Clean Air Act .
Retrieved September 08 , 2009 , from http : //www.epa.gov/air/peg/concern.html
Environmed Research .
( 2009 , June ) .
Solutions : Reduce Air Pollution by changing the design and use of motor vehicles .
Cars , Air Pollution and Health .
Retrieved September 07 , 2009 from http : //www.nutramed.com/environment/cars.htm
Toronto Public Health .
( 2007 , October 29 ) .
Summary .
Air Pollution Burden of Illness from Traffic in Toronto .
Retrieved September 08 , 2009 from http : //www.toronto.ca/health/hphe/pdf/air_pollution_burden_boh.pdf
Title : Two factors that hamper China 's design process for innovation and their impacts correspondingly .
In the article The Generation of Innovations , Rogers ( 2003 ) stressed that the engineering design process for innovation including " problem recognition , research , development , commercialization , diffusion and consequences " .
For my home country , China , although its design process for innovation has been improved a lot , there still remain several factors which hamper the innovation process significantly .
Based on this idea , this essay will focus on two factors and explain their corresponding effects on certain design stages .
The first factor is the loopholes in the system of state-owned enterprises .
According to " Wikipedia " ( 2009 , para.1 ) , a state-owned enterprise defined as " a legal entity created by a government to undertake commercial activities on behalf of an owner government , and are usually considered to be an element or part of the state " .
Since the major interest of a state-owned enterprise is controlled by government , a state-owned enterprise can receive long-term economic and resource support from government .
Employees of state-owned enterprises do n't have to worry the financial matter and are free from pressure .
In addition , the line between the functions of the government and enterprises is not clear .
Due to the political interference in stated-owned enterprises , state-owned enterprises and other type of enterprises do not compete against each other on an equal basis .
With regard to the first factor above , there emerge two impacts .
Firstly , the directors and manager of the state-owned enterprises exploit their position and power in the company to advance their own private interests .
The phenomenon of corruption is very common as well .
Thus , the money which goes into operation is reduced largely .
Furthermore , the motivations for most employees working in state-owned enterprises are pursuing the impressive salary and welfare .
As a consequence , most of the managers and employees have no sense of professional dedication and responsibility .
They are lazy and not interested in discovering .
Even if employees encounter some precious ideas by chance , they may not want to put effort into doing research and converting the ideas into production .
Thus , the above two impacts will affect the design stage , development stage significantly .
Since stated-owned enterprises play important roles in controlling and leading other type of enterprises in China , this will hamper China 's design process for innovation from macroscopic view .
Apart from the loopholes in the system of state-owned enterprises , economic shortage of China 's private companies also hampers the innovation process .
Unlike state-owned enterprises , private companies have no steady economic support .
They have to prepare for competition and the possibilities of bankrupt .
Most of the private companies may also lack funding , equipment and materials for operation and production .
With regard to the second factor , another two impacts should be considered as well .
One is the undesirable production .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , technology requires software and hardware components .
Since most high quality and accurate equipment is very expensive , some private companies could not afford it .
The poor equipment in private companies may lead to large uncertainty in design stage .
This could further lead to undesirable productions .
In addition , due to the economic shortage , private companies may not be able to hire people with high-educated knowledge and rich experience .
Hence , the design stage , machining stage and commercialization will be affected .
In short , there are many factors that may hamper China 's design process for innovation .
Among them , the loopholes in the system of state-owned enterprises and the economic shortage of private companies are the two main causes .
If the two factors from two types of enterprises can be improved , the whole design process for innovation in China can be enhanced significantly .
References :
Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136-157 ) .
New York : Free Press .
Wikipedia .
( 2009 ) .In Government-owned corporation .
Retrieved September 7,2009 , from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Government-owned_corporation # People.27s_Republic_of_China
It is widely believed that there is not any strong connection between technology innovations and examinations which is based on MCQs .
However , it still does .
While students can choose either by reasoning or by luck to complete their exams , the same thing is surprisingly can also be applied in technology .
Some technologies can be created via scientific research whereas some are accidentally developed .
Comparing two typical examples of innovations of two kinds , penicillin and vaccine discovery , we will notice some similarities as well as differences in terms of three main fields : progress of research , financial inputs and overall impact .
First of all , the way each technology was invented was different .
With penicillin discovery , such technology can be considered a huge serendipitous observation .
Alexander Fleming , the Scottish scientist and Nobel laureate , was " puzzled by the fact that the biological materials he was studying in petri dishes were occasionally dying unexpectedly .
Upon investigation , the cause turned out to be the first antibiotic to be discovered , penicillin " .
It has been rightly said that : His failure in doing his initial research as he intended brought him to a new discovery for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize .
By contrast , vaccine discovery is a kind of technology based on a sequence of basic research , followed by applied research , leading to development .
By this way , all the processes are often set up from the beginning , though sometimes mistakes were found and need adopting .
Many people are strongly convicted that conventional research is often more costly than serendipitous one .
On the contrary , in some cases the opposite applied when a unexpected observation 's financial supports was in fact much higher than those of scientific one .
The reason for this seemingly-contradictory surprise is that : while a scientific research , particularly the vaccine discovery has to go through the innovation- development process ; whether its counterpart does the same thing depends on the original research .
The total costs for an accidental one , therefore , can still be enormous .
For instance , the discovery of penicillin , though a big serendipitous observation , still costs as many of financial supports as the discovery of vaccine .
In short , it can be concluded from the comparison between penicillin and vaccine discovery that the kind of research , whether conventional or serendipity , does say nothing about the financial supports for it .
Last but not least , it would be mistaken without mentioning the importance of two kinds of research on our society .
Both vaccine and penicillin can be considered a huge success because it provides better preparation for diseases .
However , their impacts on the whole society are still different in that : While vaccine discovery was initially carried to resolve a problem recognized before , the success of penicillin discovery is beyond our expectation .
In conclusion , both vaccine and penicillin discovery are regarded as meaningful improvements in the field of medicine .
However , the way these innovations were invented , the amount of supports for them and their overall impacts are slightly different , resulting from the essence of each kind : conventional and serendipitous research .
Two problems hampering engineering design process in China .
In 2005 , Hisense Company solved the Core Technology problem which used to worry the color TV industry of China .
Now China as the first TV production country can produce 75 million color TVs with homemade chips .
( Hisense Achieves Significant Breakthrough for Core Technology through Independent Innovation , 2005 ) In order to praise Hisense Group 's significant achievement and encourage more innovation in China industry , the chairman of Hisense Company was chosen as the economic figure of the year 2005 .
However , many companies in China are still puzzled with lack of innovative product and many enterprisers are looking forward revolutionary innovation to come .
This paper will point out two main problems which hamper engineering design process for innovation and state their respective impact on certain stages of the process .
The low technological standard is one of the significant factors which hamper engineering design process .
This problem is classified as " immature technologies , mismatch between new technology and production capacity , lack of technical personnel or brain drain " .
( Environmental Innovation in China , 2008 ) Among all these , brain drain is the root .
In China , some of the graduate students from design school may go overseas to seek more professional mentors while some of them change their profession since they do not have much opportunity to develop their talents .
For those who manage to enter design industry and start innovative work , their exposure to advanced technology is limited .
( Mootee , 2009 ) Due to these reasons , some China enterprisers do not pay much attention on innovation but concentrate more on copying and modifying western technology instead of investing on innovative product .
This problem curbs the development of engineering design process at the very beginning .
Therefore most of China enterprisers focus on short-run product and expect instant profit .
Another problem hampering engineering design process is that proprietary intellectual property is not highly valued in China .
People can illegally download songs , software and games from websites without payment .
The inventors of the decoded product fail to gain benefit that they should get .
Since their Intellectual Property Rights are not protected , people are discouraged to put in effort in the engineering design process .
This problem also hampers engineering design process at the beginning since people are discouraged to enter this process .
Recently , the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People 's Republic of China announced that Intellectual Property Rights are the power of the development of enterprises .
( Cabinet Approves Intellectual Property Rights Guidelines , 2008 ) The related regulation and law were also issued and implemented to ensure the rights of inventors are reserved .
The government believes that this will improve the engineering design process for innovation in the near future .
To sum up , there are two main problems that widely recognized as the factors that hamper engineering design process , namely low technological standards and not highly valued proprietary intellectual property .
In order to improve engineering design process and increase people 's passion for innovation , China needs to solve these main problems .
References :
Cabinet Approves Intellectual Property Rights Guidelines .
April 9 , 2008 { http : //chinadigitaltimes.net/2008/04/cabinet-approves-intellectual-property-rights-guidelines/ } [ HYPERLINK : http : //chinadigitaltimes.net/2008/04/cabinet-approves-intellectual-property-rights-guidelines/ ]
Environmental Innovation in China 20-Feb-2008 { http : //www.olis.oecd.org/olis/2007doc.nsf/ENGDATCORPLOOK/NT00005CB6/ $ FILE/JT03240763.PDF } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.olis.oecd.org/olis/2007doc.nsf/ENGDATCORPLOOK/NT00005CB6/ $ FILE/JT03240763.PDF ]
Hisense Achieves Significant Breakthrough for Core Technology Through Independent Innovation .
August 8 , 2005 { http : //www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-134893223.html } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-134893223.html ]
Mootee , I .
Design in China August 07 , 2009 { http : //mootee.typepad.com/innovation_playground/design-in-china/ } [ HYPERLINK : http : //mootee.typepad.com/innovation_playground/design-in-china/ ]
Social determinant in shaping nuclear technology
Nuclear technology refers to technology that " involves the reaction of atomic nuclei " ( Wikipedia , n.d. ) .
It may appear as a high-tech term but in fact it has been put into use in various areas : radiometric dating , food irradiation , x-ray and chemotherapy in medicine and so on .
Yet , as a powerful technology , many applications of this technology have been limited due to political , environmental and economical factors .
Like many other technologies , nuclear technology first came into use to meet military demands .
Since nuclear weapons are of mass destruction , policymakers of countries all over the world prohibit research of nuclear technology 's application in military aspect and a non-proliferation treaty has been open for signature since 1968 ( International Atomic Energy Agency , 1970 ) .
However , this act also hinders the investigation of nuclear technology since it restricts the enrichment of uranium .
American president Obama once said that highly enriched uranium around the world worried him most ( Lafayette , 2008 ) .
Due to nuclear technology 's special application in military aspect and the complex international situation , it may be difficult for some countries to master nuclear technology and this characteristic is described as proliferation resistance ( International Atomic Energy Agency , 2004 ) .
Other than this international regulation , environmental concern is also an important determining factor in shaping nuclear technological innovations .
Before applying this powerful technology for energy or military use , safety matters must be taken into consideration .
Nuclear radiation has shown its horrifying destructive power in Hiroshima and Nagasaki explosions .
The notorious Chernobyl accident which caused 30 immediate deaths and affected an area of a 30 kilometer radius also reminds us of nuclear technology 's potential for causing disasters from time to time ( World nuclear association , 2009 ) .
Hence , the environmental factor also contributes to the difficulties in nuclear technology 's popularization and a lot of conventions regarding safety matters in nuclear technology application have been ratified after the accident .
Assessment of costs and benefits is necessary for all technology applications .
Since the uranium reserves are difficult to find with present technologies , the cost of applying this technology as energy source is relatively high compared with gasoline and natural gas ( Du & Parsons , 2009 ) .
Besides , it also costs large amount of money to deal with spent fuel and radioactive waste .
According to a summary on energy solutions , designing , building of a nuclear plant and " cleaning up the plant after its operating license expires " will total as much as 2.5 to 3 billion US dollars ( Maryland pirg , n.d. , para 3 ) .
To sum up , nuclear technology is greatly influenced by political , environmental and economical factors .
Nuclear technology 's special function in military usage makes international cooperation in this technology extremely difficult ; the radioactive character of this technology causes a lot of environmental issues and its cost in some applications is still high .
However , with increasing industrial demands , oil reserves are at depressed levels ; so it 's highly likely that we will have to seek solution in nuclear technology in the near future .
References
Du , Y .
& Parsons , J.E .
( 2009 September 09 ) .
Update on the cost of nuclear power .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm ? abstract_id = 1470903
International Atomic Energy Agency , ( 1970 , April 22 ) .
Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.iaea.org/Publications/Documents/Infcircs/Others/infcirc140.pdf
International Atomic Energy Agency , ( 2004 ) .
Nuclear technology review .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.iaea.org/About/Policy/GC/GC48/Documents/gc48inf-4_new.pdf
Lafayette , I .
( 2008 , July 16 ) .
Remarks of Senator Barack Obama : Summit on confronting new threats .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.barackobama.com/2008/07/16/ remarks_of_senator_barack_obam_95.php
Maryland pirg , ( n.d. ) .
The high cost of nuclear power : Why Maryland ca n't afford a new reactor .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.marylandpirg.org/home/reports/report-archives/smart-energy-solutions/smart-energy-solutions/the-high-cost-of-nuclear-power-why-maryland-cant-afford-a-new-reactor
Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia , ( n.d. ) .
Nuclear technology .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_technology
World nuclear association , ( 2009 April ) .
Chernobyl accident .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.world-nuclear.org/info/chernobyl/inf07.html
How can engineering design processes meet human needs ?
In an era which the scale of our industrial system is growing larger and larger , the consumption of resource becomes an incredible burden on the environment and people start to suffer the aftermath for the destruction and pollution we have done to the environment , a series of social issues concerning engineering and environment have been raised .
Among them , the paradox between the decreasing natural resource deposits and people 's increasing energy consumption may be given a high priority .
Upon that , according to Khandani ( 2005 ) , engineering design of products and systems may provide us a way to solve the problem .
In this essay , how does engineering design processes cope with the energy crisis will be discussed in terms of gathering pertinent information and analysis and selection of an optimized solution .
Gathering pertinent information is a crucial stage in engineering design processes , however , being neglected quite often .
As stated by Khandani ( 2005 ) , collecting enough information before finding solutions will reward you with great bonus .
Designing a new industrial system or product which works more efficient with less energy consumption is a complicated process thus needs sufficient analysis on information .
Only by doing this we can make it clear that what the state quo of energy consumption is and whether a proposal is applicable .
Supposing an engineering designing group is working on a project that should come out with a new energy-saving system in the architecture .
Usually , a kind of paint is used to retain the heat indoors .
However , this kind of paint will soon lose its effects in areas where acid rain is common .
Thus , without noticing this important information , the project will be definitely a failure .
Besides gathering information , doing a wise selection among all the options is yet another must-do in engineering design process .
Selecting the best solution will minimize the energy consumption and cut down the cost for producing the product or sustaining the system .
When going through this process , various factors will be considered such as function , ergonomics and liability and so on ( Khandani , 2005 ) .
Therefore , the selected proposal can hopefully be expected to be environmentally friendly , less energy consuming and safe of using at the same time .
In a sentence , when dealing with energy crisis , doing analysis and selecting the best solution is of great importance .
In conclusion , in order to deal with the energy crisis and work out with solution that is applicable , we need to do well in every step in engineering design processes .
Starting design without adequate information is risking the whole project and choosing a solution carelessly is rather a waste of all the efforts you and your teammates have ever put into the project .
Thereupon , only a carefully and wisely done engineering design can finally meet the needs of reducing energy consumption and being environmentally friendly at the same time .
Reference
Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Industry Initiatives for Science and Math Education .
Retrieved 2009 , Sep 9th from www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
Bar code developments and social factor
Simply by scanning at the item you buy , the cashier can tell the price of the item .
This shows the power of bar code .
Bar code , being familiar as black lines with numbers , is a " method of automatic identification and data collection " ( Bellis , n.d. , para 1 ) .
The first patent of bar code was created in 1952 by Bernard Silver and Norman Joseph Woodland ( Seideman , n.d. ) .
Through decades of development , bar code has been shaped by social factors to some extent .
The users , especially retailers and product manufacturers , play important roles in improving bar code .
Specifically , the demands of users , the economic concerns of users and the wide range of users are significant factors that shape the invention .
Firs and foremost , bar code emerged and developed as the times required .
The urgent demand of retailers to increase efficiency and accuracy in operation predicted the emergence of bar code .
According to Seideman ( n.d. ) , as early as in 1890 people realised their need and invented punch cards which played partial role of bar code .
However , the first application area of bar code was not supermarket or grocery but railroads .
Unfortunately , the implementation of bar code in railroad industry failed because it did not fit the industry perfectly and its functions were not completely utilized .
On the other hand , retailers then were just in need of a system like bar code .
In 1966 , a grocery industry meeting regarding implementation of bar code was held by RCA ( Seideman , n.d. ) .
It was then that this technology began to flourish .
Today the demands of users are still shaping bar code , expanding it to more application fields like libraries and post industry .
Another factor that affects bar code 's development is the economic concerns .
As bar code is designed to store information of the products , all products have to be labelled .
Besides , users have to buy devices that read bar code as well .
So economy cost became a big concern .
Due to this reason , bar code was not broadly implemented as soon as it was invented .
The concerns pushed the technology forward , and eventually came the bar code we use nowadays .
Having settled the economic concerns of users , bar code wins users ' heart quickly .
Since its first read in 1974 , bar code has been adopted for 35 years ( Shih , 2009 ) .
The economic factors have been shaping bar code and making it survive even facing the great competitor RFID ( Shih , 2009 ) .
In addition to the demands and economic concerns , the wide range of users helps to improve bar code .
It promotes bar code to be developed into an internationally recognized and commonly readable system .
It is clear that globalization is inevitable which means bar code has to adjust itself to meet globalization .
Apparently , a standard system is needed otherwise it will be difficult to trade .
Bar code has been standardised since 1970s and it is being improved accordingly ( Seideman , n.d. ) .
Besides globalization , the various kinds of users shape it to an easily implemented technology .
This guarantees that most users are able to master use of devices quickly .
To sum up , bar code is an important technology .
Because of users ' demands , financial capability of users and wide range of users , bar code is shaped to an innovation which is globally recognized and essential to the world .
References
Bellis , M. ( n.d. ) .
Bar codes .
Bar Codes - The History of Bar Codes .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from http : //inventors.about.com/library/inventors/blbar_code.html
Seideman , T. ( n.d. ) .
Barcodes sweep the world .
Barcoding Inc. - Barcode History .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from http : //www.barcoding.com/information/barcode_history.shtml
Shin , G.C .
( 2009 ) .
Bar codes .
Bar Codes News - The New York Times .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from http : //topics.nytimes.com/topics/reference/timestopics/subjects/b/bar_codes/index.html
Singapore is a small country , with a small population .
Here , we face problems of shortage of natural resources as well as lack of funding , when it comes to designing for our innovations .
These could greatly affect the engineering process for designing for our innovations .
The shortage of natural resources mean that all raw materials required for engineering design process for innovations would have to come from import .
This by itself poses problems such as greater cost incurred for innovations , shipment fees , as well as a delay in engineering design process .
The higher cost makes it expensive for engineering designing processes hence groups that do not have funding or sufficient funding will be held back .
This is because the designing process usually involves a lot of trial and error , using various materials for different parts of the innovation , in order to optimize the best working condition for the item of innovation .
The delay in shipment of raw materials causes a lapse of time before the materials can reach Singapore .
This results in a delay of the testing of the engineering design which slows down the whole engineering design process .
Professor Seah ( 2009 ) mentioned that the Formula Society of Automotive Engineers ( FSAE ) their first formula race car took 2 years instead of 1 to be produced , partly because of a lack of raw materials and funding .
The long shipping time and greater cost due to importing of raw materials delayed the engineering design process as they only have a plan of the race car but no chance to physically fabricate the parts and build the car , while the raw materials are still on their way to Singapore Another problem which could greatly affect the engineering process for designing is a lack of funding .
The designing process requires a large amount of raw materials for repeated fabrications of each part with different material in order to obtain the most suitable material to optimize the function of the product of innovation .
Even for the same kind of material , it might have to be used several times as the parts fabricated is not necessarily always in the expected condition when it is first made , resulting in a wastage and hence greater consumption of raw materials and therefore a greater cost incurred in the designing process .
Without funding , this step of designing would be impossible especially if the raw materials are required in large quantity .
Innovations which require expensive raw materials will be impossible to proceed if there is insufficient funding .
One innovation which went on very well in Singapore as a result of funding is the desalination of sea water .
Water supply has always been a key issue for consideration by Singapore government .
Singapore has been very reliant on neighboring countries such as Malaysia in supplying us with water .
This dependence on neighboring countries for water creates a need for Singapore to become more self-reliant on water supply .
Hence when idea of water desalination first came out , it was greatly funded by Singapore government for further improvements in Singapore .
Water-technology.net claims that tuas desalination plants produces water at 110000 cubic meters , enough to meet 10 % of Singapore 's daily water needs ( At 110,000m3/day , n.d. ) .
Therefore , availability of funding plays a great role in affecting the engineering process of designing .
With funding , there can be further research and development into improving the innovation even after it is created .
In conclusion , the engineering process for designing for innovations is greatly dependent on the availability of raw materials and funding .
The delay or shortage in either of them will lead to a lapse or even stoppage of the designing process .
Reference
At 110,000m3/day , the Tuas seawater reverse osmosis ( SWRO ) plant has sufficient capacity to meet around 10 % of the national demand - and at a price which challenges the notion that desalination is a high-cost option .
Retrieved 9 September , 2009 , http : //www.water- technology.net/projects/tuas/
Professor Seah.K.H ( 2009 , August 28 ) .
NUS Formula SAE race car project [ Lecture ] .
Singapore : The National University of Singapore : English for Academic Writing .
Innovations may be affected either by social determinism or technology determinism .
The UK Technology Education Centre states that " Social determinism refers to the hypothesis that social interactions and constructs alone determine individual behaviour ( as opposed to biological or objective factors ) " .
Nationmasters.com states " technology determinism is a theory which points to technology as being the force which shapes society .
" Social determinisms affect demands of products and thus the revenue and profit .
Toshiba laptop is largely affected by social determinists .
Its success is determined mainly by three factors : company 's perception towards the product , economic factor and social factor .
The most important factor that contributes to Toshiba 's success is changes in company 's perceptions towards the product .
Before the laptop was invented , the company was only selling desktop computers .
At that time , business of the company 's computers was poor and hence the investors were not willing to invest time and labour into the project .
However , the inventor , Mizoguchi , was not disheartened and worked in the dark .
When the first laptop was being produced , corporate executives were still against the idea of selling the new laptop .
Fortunately , Mizoguchi 's product caught the eyes of the senior vice president of Toshiba Europe and thus he offered to sell ten thousand laptops in a year .
Even though the project took an extra two months , it helped to increase market share of Toshiba .
This example shows that the change in perception leads to different outcome .
If there have been no changes in views of investors , Toshiba laptops would not have existed in the current market .
Besides the company 's perceptions , economic factor also play an important role .
Resources and funding are required in an innovation to help improve it .
One is not able to come out with successful innovations by dreaming of their achievements .
Coming out with new products requires support .
For Toshiba , the profits earned from the sales of the laptops were further invested to improve the quality of the later-produced laptops .
If a product has no financial support , it will not be successful as it not able to keep up with the challenges of the newly developed technology .
The most important factor that contributes to any innovation is the response of the public .
Consumers are important groups of people who will determine the success of the product .
At that time , the offices were cramped and there were no space available for workers to place their desktop .
The newly invented laptops were able to overcome these problems because of their small size and the ability to be carried around conveniently .
This convenience increases efficiency of workers as they are now able to work from anywhere in their offices besides their desk area .
As mentioned in the Rogers ( 2003 ) article , " By 1988 , Toshiba commanded a 38 percent market share for laptops in Europe and 21 percent in the United States ; a year later , it commanded 46 percent market share in Japan , despite the quick reactions of its competitors .
" More technology savvy people demand for laptop and thus the company constantly innovated and improved in order to bring the invention to greater heights .
The Toshiba laptop was successful because of economic , social and the change in the company 's perceptions of the product .
It is not possible to succeed with only one factor .
Therefore Toshiba needs to consider all factors during their innovations .
Two types of discoveries
There were a lot of discoveries in history which resulted in the various products and technologies we use today .
Most of these discoveries are made due to normal research .
But there still existed a lot of discoveries that were made as a result of serendipitous result of normal research which always had some interesting stories behind them .
Although these two types of discoveries could both influence the society , there are two interesting differences between them in designing process .
( Rogers , 2003 )
The first difference is the purpose and the process of the research .
Usually , the normal research is due to a certain need in life and wants to make some discovery to meet the need .
All the process in the research is to serve the purpose .
In contrast , there is always no specific need for the serendipitous discovery and the research which makes the discovery is usually for other purpose , and the serendipitous discovery is usually due to unexpected result of a normal research .
A good example is the discovery of Post-it notes .
3M Company wanted to find a kind of super glue but unexpectedly they found this kind of glue that was not strong but could be used several times .
But this unexpected result led to the successful product of a new kind of notes which is now well knownPost-it .
( Rogers , 2003 )
The other difference between a normal discovery and a serendipitous one is how to find the use of the discovery in the process of commercialization .
For normal discovery , this is not a big problem because the discovery is for serving a specific purpose .
So the usage of the discovery is quite clear .
But for serendipitous discovery , as the discovery is unexpected nobody will know the potential use of it after the discovery is made .
Even there is a possibility that nobody will notice it .
So it is much harder to turn it into use .
But fortunately , we got very smart and careful people who were able to find them and find a way to use them .
For example , during World War I , a British scientist called Brearly wanted to invent a kind of strong material which could be made into very good guns .
But he only invented a kind of material which was bright luster than other materials but not strong enough .
He was disappointed .
But later he thought why not made this beautiful material into dinner set ?
Finally , it turned out to be a great success .
( Accidental Inventions , 2008 )
Although there are differences between the two types of discoveries , there is also some similarities between them .
For example , they both are discovered in research , they have to be developed to a certain degree before commercialization , and finally they have to be turned into products and so on .
( Rogers , 2003 ) In conclusion , there are two main differences between normal discovery and serendipitous discovery , one is the purpose and process of the research and the other one is the process to turn the discoveries into use .
Besides , there are also similarities between them .
Anyhow , both of them have made a great contribution to the human society and hope there will be more discoveries being made , no matter which type they are .
Reference
Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136- 158 ) .
New York : Free Press .
Brain Candy .
( 2008 ) .
Accidental Inventions .
Retrieved September 9,2009 , from http : //www.vat19.com/brain-candy/accidental-inventions-stainless-steel.cfm
Problems to Engineering Design in Singapore
Living in a small country like Singapore has various limitations and thus more challenging for her to compete with larger nations .
Several of these limitations significantly affect the design process of new innovations .
A majority of these limitations would increases the cost of the innovation and hence require careful design .
One of these problems includes the city-state 's lack of land space which would affect the structural design of the innovation particularly if it was on the large scale .
Another would be Singapore 's dense population that affects the location and structural considerations of the design process .
Singapore currently has a land space 683 square kilometers , a country barely visible on the map .
A strategy adopted by the government to solve this problem is land reclamation , which currently accounts for about 10 % of its land space .
To further maximize land space , Singapore 's structures are mainly skyscrapers with strong and often costly foundations .
This issue particularly affects innovations that are on the larger scale , as large cost will be incurred in the construction of its foundations .
This increase in cost will hence hinder the market value and affect the economic analysis stage of the design process .
Take for example the housing in Singapore , which comprises mainly of Housing Development Board [ HDB ] flats .
In view of the collapse of Nicoll highway back in April 2004 , HDB has put up very strict requirements on the piling process and the materials used , like grade 30 concrete should be used in piling .
Similarly , the steel structure that forms the backbone of the buildings , require a minimum of 3mm steel gauge at least .
All these may drive up cost and hence affect the design process .
Aside from the problem of the lack of land space , there is also the consideration of its extremely dense population .
Contradictory to its limited land area as discussed earlier , it houses more than 4 million people .
During the peak hours , crowded trains and bus stations will be hard to miss .
New innovations thus have to consider its design rather seriously given the circumstances .
All these will seriously affect the functionality analysis stage of the design process , as more time and consideration will have to be channeled into this portion .
One example of a properly located and well-designed amenity would be the Mass Rail transit [ MRT ] stations .
Some stations are made connected to shopping malls while others to bus interchanges , thereby making transport in Singapore relatively convenient .
In addition to that , some of these stations like City Hall and Dhoby Ghaut station , not only play the role of an important hub in Singapore 's transport system , but also an internal shopping center within itself .
City- link , which is connected to city hall station , is an underground network of shops that link itself to other larger shopping facilities .
Such an example shows how proper planning of the amenities lead to the success of the application .
In conclusion , being a small country , Singapore has several issues that may affect the design process of future innovations , particularly its limited land space and its extremely dense population .
Certain examples like the MRT and the HDB flats are evidence that even with limited resources , Singapore can still flourish .
With proper design and careful planning , perhaps these limitations would be a thing of the past .
Reference
HDB specific requirements to the design and detailing for town council inprovement works and interim upgrading projects .
( 2008 August , 1 ) .
[ electronic version ] .
3 ) Steel structures .
Retrieved ( September 10 2009 ) from http : //www.hdb.gov.sg/isoa072p.nsf /13e54556eccc2e7a482570610006eb1c/ 476774302d1e8b35482574910032b864/ $ FILE/HDB-TRU_CS_- Technical % 20Requirements-TC_IUP.pdf
HDB , design , building & quality requirements for A&A work on HDB premises .
( 2007 April 7 ) .
[ electronic version ] .
1.5 ) foundation .
Retrieved ( September 10 2009 ) from http : //www.hdb.gov.sg/isoa072p.nsf/13e54556eccc2e7a482570610006eb1c /36b0f4403b2b0113482573ef003584dc/ $ FILE/HDB % 20requirements % 20A&A.PDF
Land reclamation in Singapore .
( N.D. ) .
Reasons for land reclamation in Singapore .
Retrieved ( September 10 2009 ) from http : //library.thinkquest.org/C006891/reclamation.html
Tang A .
( N.D. ) Linking City Hall , First Underground Mall in Singapore .
Singapore Shopping .
Retrieved September 10 , 2009 from http : //www.streetdirectory.com
/travel_guide/singapore/ singapore_shopping /523/linking_city_hall_first_underground_mall_in_singapore.php
Compare and contrast about guncotton and explosive
In most people 's opinion technology can only developed or created via research .
Such as the invention of new explosive , in order to find new explosive Nobel spent nearly all his time doing experiments in his library .
But there are still some technology is invented from a serendipitous discovery .
Such as guncotton , it is invented by Schoenbein by chance .
Difference between these two inventions is the ideas about how to invent them come out in different ways .
As we all know Nobel is a very hardworking and brave man .
He nearly used all his time to work for new explosive and his younger brother dead in a failing experiment at the same time his brother 's death had an unbalancing affection on his father .
His father dead right after his younger brother ( Nils .
R , N.d ) .
But he never gave up and risked his life to go on his invention and his ideas came from his effort .
The story about how Schoenbein invented guncotton was quite an interesting story .
According to Yang ( 2007 ) , " when Schoenbein is doing experiments he overthrew a bottle of chemical solution , and the solution flowed on the table Schoenbein found nothing but his wife 's apron to clean the table .
After he finished cleaning he thought that his wife will blame him after she saw what he had done .
So he wanted to use the stove to dry the apron .
When he walked near the stove the apron burned without any smoke and ashes left .
Then he felt very happy because he realized that he had found a new kind of explosive .
" Nobel can invent the explosive successfully because of his diligence and the attitude towards science which made him never give up .
Schoenbein came up with his idea accidentally and finally made an great invention for the word .
There are also some similarities between these two technologies .
First of all they are both invented by prudential chemists .
If Noble is not a prudential person and do not do his experiments and observe the phenomenon seriously though he is hardworking he may never invent the new explosive successfully .
From the story of how Schoenbein came up with the idea about the guncotton we can tell that he is really a lucky scientist .
But without the prudential attitude towards science he may miss his good luck and did not go on finding how can this phenomenon occur .
Secondly these two technologies both made great contribute to the industry and military affairs .
As both of them are explosive , people use them to exploit mines , tear down great buildings and provide a high temperature for many chemical experiments .
They are also widely used in battlefield .
Engineer use them to make all kinds of weapons .
Technology no matter it was developed via research or resulted from a serendipitous was scientist 's greatest contribution to the word .
Reference
Yang , M.M. ( 2007,July ) .Shaonianyuekan , from { http : //www.cnki.com.cn/Article/CJFDTotal-YKSN200713023.htm } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.cnki.com.cn/Article/CJFDTotal-YKSN200713023.htm ]
The 'Made in China ' phenomenon has signaled China 's endeavor to catch up with the advanced western countries .
However , the unprecedentedly rapid economic growth , driven by manufacturing and export industry , probably prevent people from discovering the problems that may impede engineering design process for innovation .
Two of these problems involve the special political environment and Chinese people 's mindset , which already have negative influence on several stages of engineering design process for innovation in China .
First of all , the special political environment many account for the stall of some stages of the whole process , such as the stage of recognizing a need or problem and the stage of innovation-development .
On one hand , many old-style leaders have long been so satisfied with the annual double-digit economic growth that they tend to refuse to seek innovative factors to boost the economy .
In fact , if we date back to the earliest related term in the party 's document , as it turns out , " it is not until October 2000 and the Fifth Session of the Fifteenth Party Congress that the 'cultural industries ' were formally proposed as part of the recommendations document for the national Tenth Five-Year Plan " ( Zhang Xiaoming , Hu Hulin and Zhang Jiangang , 2004 , as cited in Keane , 2007 , p.81 ) .
On the other hand , for a system so guided by the central planning , having such decision makers means that it probably will have difficulty recognizing a need or a problem .
Consequently , research and development ( R&D ) activities are not likely to be stimulated instantaneously .
Even though R&D activities are somehow initiated successfully , the nature of central planning which calls for " information to be moved up and down the hierarchy " ( Chan , 2009 ) may throw obstacles in the information-exchange process , which is significant to the innovation-development process .
Additionally , as Keane ( 2007 ) cited in his book 'Created in China ' , " socialism overplayed the role of productive forces and failed to develop the innovative potential of human capital " .
For instance , Gage ( 2006 ) showed that in a case study published by the Washington Policy Centre , a non-partisan think tank , health facilities were required to get permission from the State Health Agency to build and extend their health care facilities .
As it was unveiled in the research report , it somehow took longer for the health facilities to obtain approval from the State Health Agency than to actually build or extend the needed facilities .
In truth , the hospital would not be allowed to renovate unless it discarded ten beds ( ) .
As a result , the central planning actually created monopolies in this case , and the communication between manufacturing and supplier broke down due to such central planning interference .
Thus , the demands of consumers and the free market could not be met .
Another problem refers to Chinese people 's mindset .
As Michael Keane ( 2007 ) has noted , the common assumption existing long among the Chinese was that productivity directly equals to material production .
" In other word , a focus on production and performance indicators in China had impacted negatively on innovation " .
Therefore , even today in China , it is still reasonable to argue that the process for innovation may not be well understood , which means , in the respective of knowledge degree of technology transfer , the innovation-development does not seem capable to function well .
Moreover , according to what E. M. Rogers ( 2003 ) stated in 'The Generation of Innovation ' , in the face of high degree of uncertainty , these social factors in innovation-development process determine what technology is actually available to the consumers .
To sum up , we are all witnessing the state 's transformation from 'Made in China ' to 'Created in China' .
In current stage , political environment and people 's mindset are two of the problems that may hamper engineering design process for innovation .
Furthermore , these problems already have impact on several stages of the process .
Reference
Chan , K. H. ( 2009 , June ) .
Coordination , Market , Demand .
Singapore : The National University of Singapore : Principle of Economics .
Gage , I. H. ( 2006 , December 12 ) .
Failures of central planning .
Central Planning : Failing the Community ( Case ) .
Retrieved from Scribd : http : //www.scribd.com/doc/14321059/Failure-of-Central-Planning
Keane , M. ( 2007 ) .
Created in China : The great new leap forward ( 1st ed ) .
London and New York : Routledge .
Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovation .
In diffusion of innovation .
New York : Free Press .
Both can be classified as a kind of special glue , the history of post-it notes and super glue seems rather different .
The post-it notes are resulted from a serendipitous discovery , while the super glue is developed gradually via standard research process .
According to the Rogers ' innovation-decision process ( Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136-157 ) .
New York : Free Press .
) , we can compare the two products in a new and fresh perspective .
Rogers ' first stage is needs or problems , which indicates the initial target or request of the whole research and development process .
It is quite interesting that the initial researching target of the two products is the same : to create a more powerful and adhesive glue .
However , it turns out later that the serendipitous discovery actually has no real target in this stage , because the real use of post-it note seems totally different from what it has been expected at the beginning .
The next stage research is to use the scientific method to fulfill the previous target .
So we can find that the super glue 's inventor successfully find what he needs while the post-it notes ' inventor create a strange glue that is low adhesive but re-adherable .
In this stage , the difference between the two kinds of discoveries turns to be that the serendipitous discovery 's inventor could not meet his initial needs like the normal inventor but accidently create a totally different product instead .
The third and fourth stages , development and commercialization , are to meet the needs of the consumers and try to improve the products .
And from the third stage onward , the post-it notes and the super glue finally share the similarity .
One is low adhesive but re-adherable so is used to make notes that can be attached to documents and other surfaces freely .
The other one is high adhesive and functions quickly so can be used to glue many materials quickly with great strength .
The inventors both find their usages and successfully make them more practical and considerate .
So it is no more surprising that the two products both become very popular among the consumers as soon as they come out .
So we can conclude that , the serendipitous discovery and the normal one differ only in the first two stages of Rogers ' innovation process .
And from the third stage onward , they seem to have no more obvious differences .
In the context of the innovation-development process , the development of technologies may be viewed from either a technologically determinist perspective or a socially determinist view , also referred to as the social construction of technology ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
Identify one important technology which was socially determined or shaped by a specific group of users and discuss how specific factors ( e.g. , economic factors , military demands , or government regulations/priorities ) have shaped this technological innovation .
What is technology ?
According to Roger ( 2003 ) , technology is a design for instrumental action that reduces the uncertainty in the cause-effect relationships involved in achieving a desired outcome .
In the context of innovation-development process , the development of technologies may be viewed from either a technologically determinist perspective or a socially determinist view .
Technological determinism means the belief of a technology causes changes in society ( Rogers , 2003 ) , while social determinism argues that technology is constructed by social factors .
One important technology which was shaped by a specific group of users is electric vehicles , which had been shaped by four different factors that are technical , economic factors , social , and political changes .
Technical factor is one of the four elements that determine the development of electric vehicle .
Compared to the structure of a conventional automobile , electric vehicle has a similar structure but different components .
Electric vehicle has a lighter weight as most of its parts are made up of aluminium .
In addition , electric vehicle is safe to drive around as it is solely using electricity , while most conventional vehicles require gasoline , which is inflammable .
On the other hand , electric vehicle utilizes electrical energy by using batteries , so the engine is relatively clean , emission-free and quiet .
However , there are less charging stations and electric vehicle requires a long recharge time .
Therefore , it has limited usage and driving range .
Economically , technology for electric vehicles had not widely met the need because less promotion was held and there was a mass production of gasoline type automobiles .
Fewer promotions on electric vehicles were organized and auto shows were not often organized , resulting in relatively discouraging sales .
Furthermore , electric vehicles were not advertised in precise manners .
Besides , declined cost in oil in the past encouraged people to buy gasoline cars .
At this point , there was a mass production of gasoline cars .
Insurance and financing were included in purchasing these vehicles .
In the end , gasoline vehicles controlled the monopoly on automobiles in market .
From these examples , we can see that various economic factors had a great influence on electric vehicles .
Compared to conventional vehicles that are available now , electric vehicles are socially determined in several reasons : limited range of electric vehicles , beliefs and values of the society today .
Because of limited choices of electric cars , people choose conventional automobiles which offer greater variety of choices .
Despite several advantages , their interests towards electric cars are fading .
Additionally , some have negative beliefs and values towards electric cars .
They believe that their status may be lowered by purchasing the cars .
They also feel that these cars are less attractive compared to conventional cars too .
In addition , political factors can affect how the sales of vehicles go , which include government 's adherence to this technology .
People lose interests as government is not supportive .
Not only that government provides subsidies and incentives to users , who use gasoline cars , but also constructs and designs roads for conventional vehicles .
All in all , we can easily see that from these examples , many factors that specified by other group of users have led electric vehicles to a decline .
According to Sovacool ( 2009 ) , acceptance of a new technology depends not only on technical factors but also economic , political , and social ones .
These specific factors need to be analyzed to work out a better solution algorithmically and tackle the existing problems .
References
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
[ Electronic Version ] .
In Diffusion of innovations ( p. 1 ) .
New York : Free Press
Sovacool B .
( 2009 , August 28 ) .
Using the Social Systems Approach to explain the non-adoption of electric vehicles [ Lecture ] .
Singapore : The National University of Singapore : English for Academic Writing .
Nowadays , with the ever-accelerated technology , many inventions come into being , and many new words come with them as well .
Have you ever heard about warfarin ?
Yes !
It is a widely used rat poison in the world !
But do you know the original usage of warfarin ?
At first , a certain chemical in warfarin was used to counteract the acid in the soil and to minimize soil erosion .
It was found in some sweet clover hay .
However , farmers who used these plants found that when they fed their cattle with them , they all died of hemorrhage .
Professor K.P .
Link then made a research and found coumarin inside the sweet clover hay , which resulted in puncturing cattle 's stomachs and caused internal bleeding .
This kind of chemicals enlightened Professor Link on applying them to killing rats .
Finally , the famous warfarin came into use !
It is a typical serendipity example , which in fact shares some common points with a conventional research .
The first similarity is that at the first step , they both require scientists to make every effort to get the results that scientists expected them to be .
Therefore , both of these kinds of inventions require scientists to have a proper method to do the experiment at first .
Thus we can not infer that serendipity occurs when scientists use wrong methods to achieve the result .
After all , their purposes before doing experiments are the same .
They will not work out the problem in an opposite way at the first step .
The second similarity that I consider is about luck .
As long as it is an experiment , it requires luck to some extent , regardless of whether it is serendipity or a conventional research .
Take Nobel 's invention of dynamics for example .
Without luck , he may die of the exploding of the dynamics and would not shout that excitedly " I make it !
I make it !
" Thus , luck is required at every successful experiment , let alone serendipity , which requires more luck to achieve another result to just meet a certain kind of people 's need coincidentally .
Although there are similarities existing , they differ from each other in several respects .
The first obvious difference is that serendipitous technologies are not invented on purpose .
Do you know some things about the invention of microwave ?
It was invented by an American engineer called Percy Spencer .
At first , Spencer cooperated with the British to study the microwave in military use .
By accident , he found that the chocolate bars in his pocket were melted when exposed to microwave .
This phenomenon interested him to use an egg for experiment .
What made him surprised was that the egg blew up !
Then the microwave oven came into use !
However , it was not invented on purpose at first !
Another difference is that serendipity is sometimes caused by additional observations of one research , while there is no further discovery as a " bonus " in a conventional research .
To conclude , both serendipity and a conventional research require luck and they are similar in their own first step , but the difference is that a serendipity finding is not on purpose and it is sometimes resulted from an additional discovery through a research .
However , both of them are needed to make scientific world a more magic and wonderful world !
Reference
warfarin : Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136-157 ) .
New York .
Percy Spencer : Percy Spencer ( 9 July , 1894 8 September , 1970 ) was an American engineer and inventor .
He was known as the inventor of the microwave oven .
( http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percy_Spencer )
What Makes Xiaonei.com a Leader
Recent data indicates that well-known Xiaonei.com to be the largest social networking site in China , open to the public , mainly university students .
According to Global Times , renren.com , the present name of Xiaonei.com , has attracted 70 million registered users since it was founded in 2005 ( Lin , 2009 ) .
Charging free , Xiaonei.com stands out with 63.4 % share of the social networking site market ( Wang , 2008 ) .
No one can deny that Xiaonei.com is now a big success , leading in its field .
In my humble opinion , its success is owing to both social and economic factors .
On the social part , Xiaonei.com builds its success on the true networking environment it provides , well-rounded functions and convenience in looking for friends and classmates .
To begin with , Xiaonei.com requires the university email addresses and confirmation via this address when an application to sign up is being processed .
This action ensures the true identity of the users .
As mentioned before , undergraduate is predominant among groups of users .
Undergraduate students may probably feel secured , and thus free to share diaries , pictures and updates with friends , which may not be the case in other sites in the virtue Internet world .
Furthermore , Xiaonei.com incorporates all kinds of functions such as the instant communication of MSN , online games and other applications like daily forecast of fortune .
With Xiaonei.com there is no need to click on respective web links and to wait for a while before the wanted functions are ready .
Instead , what should be done is simply logging in Xiaonei.com and then almost all the expected functions are available .
Last but not least , users save time in looking for their friends and simply get things done in a second as long as the information on the school and class is obtained .
Apart from the social factors , economic factors also play an important role in the prosperity of Xiaonei.com .
Global Times noted that " the group 's revenue depends mainly on online advertising " ( Lin , 2009 ) .
Embracing a large group of users , Xiaonei.com becomes the priority of advertisers .
In fact , many have been Xiaonei.com 's partners , believing that their advertisement can boost their reputation and influence .
The popularity and market size not only benefit Xiaonei.com on advertisement , but also earns Xiaonei.com large amount of investment which in turn brings Xiaonei.com further .
Moreover , the big share Xiaonei.com holds is still maintainable .
The trustworthy networking environment , free entry and exceeding convenience earn Xiaonei.com a standout place in its field , which help sustain the market share and development .
On the strong basis of capital and reputation Xiaonei.com is reaching out to students beyond mainland China throughout the world .
To add on , network effect , an Economics jargon meaning that people incline to stay in the network unless their followers leave , also do help Xiaonei.com secure its market share .
In addition , Xiaonei.com also gains the payment if more advanced features is needed , obviously depending on the market size and reputation as well .
All in all , market share , obtained from the social factors , does and will secure the achievement of Xiaonei.com by profit in advertisement and advanced service and most importantly , investment .
To sum up , social factors and economic factors work hand in hand with each other to push Xiaonei.com where it is now .
True identity of user of Xiaonei.com is indefinitely the outstanding social factor , which matches university students ' expectation to share their true life in a secure way .
Meanwhile , investment drawn from reputation is the key economic drive for Xiaonei.com to develop .
As a perfect combination of social and economic factors , Xiaonei.com has come so far and there is still a long way to go to prevail globally .
References
Lin J.S .
( 2009 , August 6 ) .
Self-regulation keeps China 's SNS afloat .
Global Times .
Retrieved from http : //china.globaltimes.cn/society/2009-08/454872.html
Wang K.J .
( 2008 , August 6 ) .
2707 [ Chinese social networking site is gradually followed with interest , the registered users of Xiaonei.com hitting over 27million ] Retrieved from http : //www.cbinews.com/news/itnews/itc/showcontent.jsp ?
articleid = 74558
All modern jet aircraft are powered by engines based on the first jet engine .
This was first developed by Frank Whittle in 1937 and installed in military aircrafts during the World War II .
After the war , this technology was transferred to commercial use and enabled faster and safer air travel .
In the context of the social construction of technology , I will discuss how various social factors have shaped this technological innovation .
Military priority during the World War II was an important factor in propelling the design and use of jet engine .
Frank Whittle , the inventor of jet propulsion , was a pilot in the Royal Air Force in the early 1920s .
When he first proposed the idea of turbo jet propulsion , it was met with skepticism by the Air Ministry and was denied assistance and funding from the country ( " Biography : Sir Frank Whittle , " n.d. ) .
Frank Whittle then continued to work on his engine but due to lack of funding , he made little progress .
Finally just a few months before the invasion of Poland by Germany and in the wake of possible threats , the Air ministry finally took Frank 's work seriously and promised funding in Frank 's research ( Younossi et al.,2003 ) .
As we can see , if there is no threat of war , the British Government may not provide any funding at all .
The jet engine will not be invented at all as people then do not see the need for plane to travel so fast .
The social setting of the invention also plays an interesting role in shaping the history of jet engine .
When Frank Whittle carried out his research for the British , a German physicist by the name of Hans Von Ohain had already successfully invented the jet engine and the first test flight was a whole two years earlier than Frank Whittle 's ( McTavish , 1993 ) .
However Frank 's model was more recognized than Han 's due to two reasons .
First , the first jet flight was unknown to the world due to military secrecy under the Nazi regime ( Crandall , 2007 ) .
Second , the war ended with the Allies emerging victorious .
Therefore , Hans 's engine was not developed while the U.K continued to improve on Frank Whittle 's design , which would later be evolved to commercial uses .
In this case , the engine used was socially determined by the winning party of the war .
Two feasible engines had meet up with different fate due to the different social settings .
Last by not least , the increase in the trends of international tourism is the one factor that allows jet engines to be converted to civilian usage today .
After the war , peace returned and economy prospered due to reconstruction efforts .
People became more affluent and demand for foreign travel increased exponentially ( Lyth , 1975 ) .
Planes in use then were slow ; around 250 miles per hour , and the airlines industry needed a better alternative .
This was when the jet engines were developed to fit into the commercial planes we travel on today .
As we can see , a change in society trend can completely revolutionize the usage of a technology .
This is a striking example of how social factors shaped the way people use a technology .
To conclude , the jet engine has come a long way .
From its initial usage in killing machines to its function in revolutionizing air travel , the jet engine in use today has been shaped by many social considerations and I certainly believe it will continue to be so in the many futures to come .
References
Biography : Sir Frank Whittle ( n.d. ) Answers.com .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //www.answers.com/topic/frank-whittle
Crandall , J .
( 2007 , April 1 ) .
The invention of the Jet Engine .
Suite101 .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //transport-inventions.suite101.com/article.cfm/the_invention_of_the_jet_engine
Lyth , P. ( 1975 ) .
The Jet Engine and the revolution in air travel : Gim me a ticket on an Aeroplane .
International Economic History Association Web .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //eh.net/XIIICongress/cd/papers/4Lyth8.pdf
McTavish , D. ( 1995 ) .
Famous Inventors ( 2nd ed ) .
East Sussex : Waylands .
Younossi , B ( 2003 ) .
Military Jet Acquisition : An overview of Military Jet Engine history .
Rand Corporation .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : // www.rand.org/pubs/monograph.../MR1596/MR1596.appb.pdf
Engineering design problems in China
Since the reform and open policy was established in 1978 , China has enjoyed a booming development in economics and technology .
A large amount of foreign capitals as well as advanced foreign technologies have been introduced to China .
As a result , a lot of factories are built to provide the whole world with cheap and qualified products .
However , the technological innovation for engineering design is still a weak point for Chinese manufactories .
Many Chinese enterprises do not have their own technology and the technological innovation is mainly relied on the introduced foreign technology .
What exactly hamper the engineering design innovations in China ?
In my opinion , a serious plagiarism problem of Chinese institutes and the conservative consumption concept of Chinese people are two significant restrictions for the innovation of engineering design in China .
The plagiarism problem in both researching process and manufacturing process of engineering design is very serious in China .
In Chinese universities and other research organizations , plagiarism is rampant .
A Chinese study shows that " 60 percent of PhD candidates admitted to plagiarism , bribery " ( Marquand , 2006 ) .
University professors are also exposed of plagiarism .
For instance , Wang Mingming , a sociology professor in Peking University plagiarized 100.000 words from an American anthropologist 's work in the year 2002 ( Academic Circles , 2002 ) .
Plagiarism also exists in manufactories .
A notable number of Chinese factories make piratical products by copying foreign products .
For example , Meizu , a Chinese electrical manufactory famous for its pseudo " Apple inspired design " music players recently comes up with a new product M8 .
This new product is actually another copycat of Apple iphone ( Ricker , 2007 ) .
Another example is the popular Chinese website " Xiaonei " .
It is exactly a fake " Facebook " .
Plagiarism can have strong negative effects on the innovation of engineering design .
By plagiarizing , engineers are not inclined to generate and analyze multiple solutions ( Khandani , 2005 ) .
They tend to copy other engineers ' work and become less creative , which in turn , significantly hamper the engineering design innovation of the whole nation .
The other important factor is the traditional conservative consumption concept of Chinese people .
Chinese culture used to appreciate consistency and changelessness .
In modern society , many Chinese people are still traditional and conservative in their consumption concepts .
They tend to reject engineering innovation and be slow in accepting new technological products .
Consequently , the conservative consumption concept can lead to low evaluation estimation of innovative products .
For the famous Russian Anti-Virus software , Kaspersky , many Chinese people would prefer to get a free registration key than pay certain amount of money .
Furthermore , the commercializing process of engineering design innovation can also be strongly affected by the conservative consumption concepts .
Take " Xianjian ( the Legend of Sword and Fairy ) " , a fantastic Chinese video game for example .
It is a very popular video game in china .
However , the game company is lack of capitals for research and development since most players are using cracked version of Xianjian .
With few responses from local consumers , it is really tough for the innovation of engineering design in China .
The world is becoming more competitive .
Only creative countries with innovative engineers can lead the technology of the world .
Therefore , innovation in engineering design is of extreme importance .
China has to be aware of its problems in engineering design in order to be a leading nation in the 21st century .
By reducing the plagiarism rate of Chinese institutes and gradually converting the conservative consumption concept of Chinese people , China can really make a big difference .
References
Academic Circles Buzz Over Peking University Plagiarism Case .
( 2002 , February 22 ) .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from { http : //www.china.org.cn/english/2002/Feb/27368.htm } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.china.org.cn/english/2002/Feb/27368.htm ]
Kaspersky 's Keys are all over the internet , why KL do n't stop it .
( 2006 , May 12 ) .
Kaspersky lab forum .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009,from
http : //forum.kaspersky.com/lofiversion/index.php/t13792.html
Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
Marquand,R .
( May 16 , 2006 ) .
Research fraud rampant in China .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from the Csmonitor website : { http : //www.csmonitor.com/2006/0516/p01s03-woap.html } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.csmonitor.com/2006/0516/p01s03-woap.html ]
" Paladin 5 " development series will not end .
( 2009 , September 9 ) .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from the TGBUS website : { http : //ol.tgbus.com/news/pcgame/200909/492448.shtml } [ HYPERLINK : http : //ol.tgbus.com/news/pcgame/200909/492448.shtml ]
Ricker , T. ( 2007 , Jan 29 ) .
Meizu 's M8 ?
Apple lawyers , start your engines .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from the Engadget website : { http : //www.engadget.com/2007/01/29/meizus-m8-apple-lawyers-start-your-engines/ } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.engadget.com/2007/01/29/meizus-m8-apple-lawyers-start-your-engines/ ]
Facing the food shortage
Food shortage is much more serious than it used to be now .
According to an article published on the Internet , the impact of food crisis is historically spreading from developing world to developed world ( Kate Smith and Rob Edwards , 2009 ) .
It is the critical time to make some substantial changes to solve this essential challenge .
Appropriate facilities , efficient technology support and proper use of food are required to increase the food production in order to solve the food shortage problem .
First and foremost , government should improve the facilities in the current agriculture system to satisfy the fundamental requirements .
To be more accurate , in the developing countries , government should make a good plan to build irrigation canal and bank based on the analysis of local climate and geography .
Government should provide stable surroundings for farmers to plant food .
Protecting plant away from droughts and floods is necessary to have a good harvest .
Besides the infrastructure construction , another advisable method to increase production is to mechanize the agriculture system .
Armed with machine , farmers can make the most of limited farmland and time .
In addition to the improvement of facilities in the current agriculture system , high-tech support also plays a crucial role in increasing food production .
It is effortless to come up with the idea that we can use biological engineering way to change certain properties of plants .
Through this method , more food can be harvested in the same area of farmland .
Government should also make some regulations to urge experts to teach farmers how to farm scientifically .
For example , people grew a certain kind of plant in a county of China traditionally .
However , the plant is not an ideal plant for that environment .
After those farmers were told this , they changed the plant .
Then a better harvest is got .
Having made a good plan to help farmers to produce more food , government must use the food properly .
Otherwise , no matter how much food can be harvested , many people will still suffer starvation .
From the same article which was mentioned in the first paragraph , a surprising fact emerges from the sophisticated Internet .
" Last year a quarter of the US maize crop was turned into ethanol to fuel vehicles - and the US supplies more than 60 % of the world 's maize exports .
" ( Kate Smith and Rob Edwards , 2009 ) .
It sounds very ridiculous that while 102.1 million people received food from UN WFP ( WFP in numbers , 2009 ) because they did not have enough food , an appreciable percentage of food was used to run cars .
It can never be called progress but ignorance .
It is an inhuman action to turn food into ethanol to feed cars instead of helping those starving people .
Government should not abuse food .
In conclusion , there are three advisable ways to solve the food shortage .
Infrastructure is the foundation of agriculture .
Upgrading the infrastructure is necessary for food production to increase .
Apart from infrastructure , high-tech technology also can do a big favor in this issue .
Last but not least , proper use of food must be highlighted .
Through these methods , a better situation will come soon .
References
Smith , K. & Edwards , R. ( 2008 ) .
2008 : The year of global food crisis .
Retrieved September 5th , 2009 , from website : { http : //www.sundayherald.com/search/display.var.2104849.0.2008_the_year_of_global_food_crisis.php } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.sundayherald.com/search/display.var.2104849.0.2008_the_year_of_global_food_crisis.php ]
WFP in numbers .
( n.d. ) .
Retrieved September 5th , 2009 , from World Food Programme Fighting Hunger Worldwide website : { http : //www.wfp.org/wfp-numbers } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.wfp.org/wfp-numbers ]
During the last decade , Vietnam experienced significant changes .
In 1986 , the government of Vietnam introduced the " Doi moi " - reforming program to bring about improvements in the living of its people .
Although progress has been impressive by almost any standards : economy , education , health service... , Vietnam must face a lot of current challenges , especially in technology .
Among these challenges , the shortages of investment and skilled workers actually hamper engineering design processes for innovation .
At present , the lack of investment makes several projects in Vietnam progress tardily or incompletely .
Standard of living has become higher and higher .
As a result , the needs of energy , effective machine , modern communication service... ask for an innovation in engineering design processes that " often begins with recognition of a problem or need " ( Rogers , 2003 , p. 136 ) .
Vietnamese engineers have knowledge and enthusiasm to start research and development .
However , at this stage , they must face a serious question : " Where do the investments come from ?
" Without money , engineers ca n't continue and improve their ideas .
In fact , most of those researches have only existed in paper and laboratories .
For instance , despite the assessment of substantial potential energy , wind energy in Vietnam is not developed and is only applied in researching phase .
According to Do ( 2008 ) , around 28,000 square kilometers of the country 's land had an average wind speed of over seven meters per second ( para .
2 ) .
The wind energy project requires a great investment that is too high for provinces ; so , they are trying to attract foreign and private investors .
But there are still difficulties for foreigners and organizations seeking to invest in Vietnam .
One of these involves the form of pricing .
Do showed " State- owned monopoly power distributor Vietnam Electricity ( EVN ) only pays 4.5 cents for a kilowatt hour ( kWh ) of wind energy though the cost of generating it is not less than six cents .
" Thus , the Vietnamese laws would better be changed to reflect the needs of investors .
In addition to the investment , the force of skilled workers is also a difficult problem for Vietnam .
The condition of shortage of skilled workers has appeared for a long time , but recently , in speeding up production process , this condition becomes urgent .
In Binh Duong , a province of Vietnam , the real situation is " roughly 50,000 labors were needed to fill positions each year " ( " Firms grapple with shortage " , 2009 ) .
So the engineering design process is short of efficient workers joining in the commercialization of an innovation .
However , in many training schools , there is still lack of facilities and equipment that ca n't help workers improve their practical skill .
Therefore , from now , Vietnamese government should find a solution to link factories and companies with schools in training workers .
With the investment from them , the school has abilities to modernize facilities so that training condition will be better .
The shortage of investment and skilled workers is a problem needing solutions rapidly as well as lastingly .
Undergoing this challenge , Vietnam will gain more power to catch up with the developed world .
References
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations .
New York : Free Press .
Do , T.S .
( 2008 , October 23 ) .
Wind could bridge supply-demand gap for electricity in Vietnam .
Frost .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from { http : //www.frost.com/prod/servlet/market-insight-top.pag ? Src = RSS&docid = 146888845 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.frost.com/prod/servlet/market-insight-top.pag ? Src = RSS&docid = 146888845 ]
Firms grapple with shortage , retention of skilled employees .
( 2009 , June 22 ) .
Vietnamnews .
Retrieved September 8 , 2009 , from { http : //vietnamnews.vnagency.com.vn/showarticle.php ? num = 01LAB220609 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //vietnamnews.vnagency.com.vn/showarticle.php ? num = 01LAB220609 ]
Problems in the Engineering Design Processes for Innovations in China
Engineering design processes for innovations are very important to the industry of China .
However , some existing problems hamper the innovations .
Here , a make an example .
With the rapid development of the oil industry , the process and conveyance of oil is more and more advanced .
Just at this time , a new kind of material comes into being which is called new plastic material .
Compared with traditional metal conduit , plastic conduit has the advantages of lighter in weight , stronger ability to bear corrosion and smaller resistance .
In addition , plastic conduit saves sources , costs less and is easily fixed .
As a result , plastic conduit is very popular from engineers .
However , nowadays , there are some problems hamper the engineering design processes for innovations in China .
Two significant problems are about the raw material and the utilization .
Although the scale of the raw materials manufacture for the plastic conduit is extending and the quality of the materials is increasing , there are still some problems .
First , there is little variety of the raw materials and there are almost no special materials .
To meet the different needs of the market , many kinds of materials are needed .
But , China does not have enough kinds of special raw materials at present .
As a consequence , we need to import the materials from other countries .
The import increases the price of plastic conduit which people do not want .
Second , the qualities of the materials are not steady .
This is mainly due to our production system is not advanced .
We do not have the advanced equipment and do not use stabilizing agent and additive properly .
This problem is because of our short comings in the technology .
The last , the price of the raw materials fluctuate greatly .
The price of the ordinary materials are suitable and almost the same as other countries .
However , the special raw materials are very expensive , especially some accessories and some assistants .
As a result , we need to import the special materials from other countries .
Therefore , there are some problems about the raw materials of the plastic conduit that hamper the engineering design .
Plastic conduit has its own characteristics .
Special technique is needed , such as the technique of laying the conduit under the water and the repair skill .
However , the criterions about these techniques are still under constituting .
The study about plastic conduit is poor and there is no ripe method to construct .
These problems lead to a result that although there are good products , plastic conduit can not exert its special functions because the workers do not have the necessary knowledge and still follows the outdated methods .
As a result , the laggard utilization of the plastic conduit hampers the process of engineering design .
Plastic conduit is really an advanced design for industry .
However , just like plastic conduit , there are many engineering designs which have not developed into perfect innovations in China because of the problems exist now .
To sum up , China has a long way to go to meet the needs of engineering designs processes for innovations .
In the board sweep of scientific history , scientists have made a lot of discoveries via research .
In contrast , a lot of serendipitous discoveries were made at the same time .
As a serendipitous discovery , the discovery of penicillin is very different from the discovery of the DNA 's structure , because Alexander Fleming started to study penicillin by an accidental finding , but Watson and Crick started the research on the DNA 's structure based on Franklin 's previous study .
Furthermore , Fleming did not experience failure during the study on penicillin , but the discovery of DNA 's structure did not seem to be that smooth .
The discovery of penicillin was started accidentally , but Watson and Crick started their research on the structure of DNA based on the previous research done by Franklin .
Douglas Allchin ( n.d. ) once put in his article saying that " Alexander Fleming 's discovery of penicillin is one of the most celebrated cases of chance , or accident , in science ( Allchin , n.d. ) .
" Although Louis Pasteur once said that " chance favors only the prepared mind " , it was fortune that have done the most job to make Fleming the person who found penicillin .
Well , for Watson and Crick , it was another story .
" These two brash young scientists " ( " The discovery of " , n.d. ) spent more than one year discussing the result of Franklin 's research and their assumptions before they really embarked on their own research .
Maybe it was just because that Fleming discovered the penicillin by chance , he did not experience any failure during the discovering process , while the discovery of the DNA 's structure did not seem to be that easy and the process did not seem to be smooth , either .
After " Fleming noticed a halo of inhibition of bacterial growth around a contaminant blue-green mould on a Staphylococcus plate culture " ( " Discovery of penicillin " , 2009 ) , he started his research and discovered penicillin .
Everything seems progressing normally .
When it comes to the DNA 's structure , the situation was quite different .
In the 1950s , not only Watson and Crick , but also two other groups were working on the research wanting to determine the structure of DNA , but in the end , only Watson and Crick were able to produce good quality diffraction patterns and thus produce sufficient quantitative data about the structure ( " History of molecular " , 2009 ) .
In conclusion , scientists made new discoveries by using different methods .
The discovering process of penicillin and the structure of DNA were totally different , but the scientists have made significant contribution to human beings by making both discoveries .
Furthermore , both of them are still playing an important role in the medical field in 21st century .
References
Douglas Allchin .
( n.d. ) .
Penicillin and chance .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from http : //www1.umn.edu/ships/updates/fleming.htm
The discovery of DNA 's structure .
( n.d. ) .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from http : //www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/library/06/3/l_063_01.html
Discovery of penicillin .
( 2009 ) .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discovery_of_penicillin
History of molecular biology : Discovery of the structure of DNA .
( 2009 ) .
Retrieved September 7 , 2009 , from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discovery_of_DNA_ structure # Discovery_of_the_structure_of_DNA
Over the years , man has come up with many marvelous ideas and technologies which helped to simplify our lives by a huge leap .
These great ideas were thanks to the hardwork and effort that researchers put in to make them happen .
However , some of the unthinkable ideas were not created through research .
These creations are called serendipitous discoveries .
Often than not , they are chanced upon when the researchers are researching on something else instead .
Let us take a closer look at two examples , the electric car as technology that was developed via research and warfarin which was a result of a serendipitous discovery , and find out what are some of their similarities and differences in terms of their popularity , usefulness , production cost , and other usages .
Both the electric car and warfarin gained in popularity from the moment they were developed .
The electric cars were heavily marketed when the prototype became available .
Advertisements were put up in each local newspaper , inviting interested individuals to apply for an opportunity to test-drive the new vehicle .
The response turned out to be overwhelming .
According to Rogers E.M. ( 2003 ) , in Sacramento , with a population of close to half a million , seven thousand applied .
And though they were given thrity minutes after the test-drive to ask questions , they find that it was not enough to ask all the questions that they have in mind .
Also , when asked to hand out wallet-sized cards containing information on the electric cars , the test-drivers did it with passion .
They even asked for more cards when they finished giving out what they have .
As for warfarin , it was a big hit too as it was a very effective antidote against pests like rats and mice .
However , to this date , it has been overtaken by another stronger poison called brodifacoum .
This is because many rat populations have developed resistance to warfarin .
Therefore , a poison of greater potency is needed .
Another similarity between the two different innovations is that they are both useful in their own way .
The electric car is created as it does not pollute the air unlike gasoline vehicles .
The electric car is also lightweight and very quiet , which does not produce noise pollution as well .
Therefore , the electric car serves its purpose of being a clean and pollution-free car .
The warfarin is useful as rats causes a lot of problems especially to farmers , and warfarin is very effective against them .
Besides , it is not dangerous to humans who might happen to consume it .
Thus , both creations are very useful in the role they play in making our life a better one .
One difference between the two innovations is the production cost of each product .
The electric car is a large scale project where large amount of money is pumped into doing research in order to improve the car .
Besides that , each individual part that make up the car is also expensive .
As compared to the electric car , warfarin is a cheap product which is easily available in the market .
Another consideration that separates the electric car from warfarin is that the electric car only has one usage whereas warfarin has other usages besides being used as a pesticide .
The electric car is a vehicle used for transportation and that is its sole purpose .
Warfarin , on the other hand , can be used as an anticoagulant .
It is prescribed to people with an increased tendency for thrombosis , the formation of blood clot inside the blood vessel .
Warfarin can also help to prevent formation of future blood clots .
In conclusion , although technology can be created by means of doing research or by chance , there are still some similarities and differences between them .
References
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
Opinion leaders and mavens in the diffusion of electric cars .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp87-89 ) .
New York : Free Press
Right from the first Industrial Revolution , human 's daily life is being enriched by exploding number of inventions .
Currently human beings require more varies and amount of inventions .
Some of the inventions are developed from the conventional generated technology while others may come from innovations which are created in a skunkworks environment .
Both of the two methods require tough jobs and their researchers must overcome the impacts of unpredictable market during the process .
On the surface , conventionally generated technology and innovation created in a skunkworks environment do not differ .
One similarity the two technologies share is that the process is tough .
Because of market demands , researchers have to work overloaded so as to come out the technology faster .
Besides , researchers have to repeat the same experiment hundreds of times until success .
For example , Edison decided to invent electric light after Ferrari invented electric motor .
After concluding previous experiences , Edison tried about 1600 different materials as filament with noting down each of their performances .
Besides , Edison also tried to vacuumize the lamp .
And finally all the efforts turned to be success that the first light in the world appeared in 1879 .
In addition , the two technology processes have another feature in common , that is researchers have to take all the uncertain consequences including a total failure during the process .
In other words , no matter the technology derives from a convention or it is definitely a new innovation , it has to be prepared for the worst outcome .
Sometimes the final product can not reach what people have expected , or the new innovation can not be accepted by public temporarily , then negative impacts may influence the continuing research .
Therefore , the two types of technologies are alike since tough jobs are required and researchers must be ready for any consequence given by the unpredicted market .
However , they also differ .
First of all , the length of the research process may differ .
As conventionally generated technology is always upgraded from a previous technology , in contrast , innovation is to come up with a total new technology which has fewer references .
Hence , developing a conventionally generated technology is always faster than coming up with an innovation .
Moreover , conventionally generated technology and innovation receive different attitudes from other people .
As conventionally generated technology obeys people 's psychological inertia so that it can easily satisfy people .
In addition , the previous technology it is based on may have already gained reputations , hence the majority of people will support the R&D process and the process is always under observation .
But when it comes to innovation , the conditions are quite different .
The researchers of the innovation may receive poor feedbacks in the prior market research , or someone even regard the researchers as idiots .
Thus normally the innovation has to be developed in a skunkworks environment .
Take the birth of the first Toshiba laptop as an example , initially the idea of the laptop could not be accepted by the organizational hierarchy of Toshiba .
However the engineer Mizoguchi persisted to research the laptop in a skunkworks environment , and finally he got the triumph and nowadays laptop is becoming essential in our daily life .
To conclude , conventionally generated technology and innovation created in a skunkworks environment are alike , yet different .
Both of them require endless efforts although they may be neglected temporarily , but they should be appreciated since they contribute a lot to the development of technology .
References
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The birth of the laptop computer at Toshiba .
In diffusion of innovations ( pp .
144- 146 ) .
New York : Free Press .
What is hampering engineering design process for innovations in China ?
In recently years , engineering design for innovation has aroused consideration from the public in China .
As a most important aspect to contribute to the development of science and technology of the nation as well as improve living standard of people , engineering design for innovations plays a significant role in the current Chinese society .
However , there are still many problems hampering engineering design process for innovations .
The exam-orientated education system and the undesirable climate in the academic circle are two of the most serious ones which affect engineers ' motivation and capacities during the process .
The exam-orientated education system has existed in China for a long time .
It does have some advantages ; however , it has more side effect on people 's innovation and creation .
In the process of basic education , spoon-feeding education is the main teaching method in this system and it focuses on memorization .
Students are required to remember whatever books read and teaches teach without thinking about whether it is true or not .
Besides , high marks in exams are their goal of study .
They do a lot of exercise so as to be proficient at solving problems in the exam papers .
They gradually ignore thinking and doubting and lose the awareness and ability of creation and innovation .
In the phase of tertiary education in China , although students have more chance of self-study , most of them still focus on various kinds of exams in order to get certificates .
They pursue further study in purpose of getting a better job rather than do research .
Still , they achieve a master degree or PhD through exams .
In general , the exam-orientated education system has affected engineering design process of innovations .
In addition , the undesirable climate in the academic circle is hampering innovations even more seriously .
There are few engineers absorbed in creation and innovation .
Many are more concerned about self benefits , such as social status , reputation and money .
This phenomenon is partially a result of the social prejudice that the society respects those with power more than intelligentsias .
Academic demoralization and corruption are common nowadays .
Money for research is wasted on some vanity projects ; cheating and plagiarism are carried out in order to win a reputation .
Paper , as the major measurement of one 's achievement in academic circles , causes the situation to be even worse .
In order to issue more papers in some magazines , some engineers even use money to buy the opportunities of issuing their articles .
These problems in academic circle are impeding engineering design .
Having recognized the factors which are hampering the engineering design process of innovations , we must take action to change the serious situation .
Improving the education system and developing right academic atmosphere are essential and urgent .
Only removing the obstacles can engineers develop science and technology and design new things of innovations .
Conventional Way and Skunkworks
Technology is a material object which is used to increase the ability to adapt to one 's environment ( " Technology , " 2009 ) .
To produce technology , one has to make a project involving professionals .
Because the project usually spends a lot of money , one should have a backup , such as a company , to give financial support .
In conventional way , one should receive an approval from the corporate executives due to the company bureaucracy in order to do the project .
However , there are some projects which are not approved by the corporate executives .
Most people will just obey the decision .
Nonetheless , there are some people who are not satisfied with the decision made by the corporate executives , and these people dare to challenge the executives ' decision by doing the project in a skunkworks environment .
Thus , technology can be derived from a project which is done either in a conventional way or in a skunkworks environment .
A conventionally generated technology and an innovation that was created in a skunkworks environment differ in organizational structure and time consumption , but similar in the doers and the purpose .
One obvious difference is the organizational structure .
People who do the project in a conventional way should receive an approval from the corporate executives before these people start the project .
These people have to submit a proposal of the project and wait for the executives ' decision , which is based on the company situation .
In some cases , although the idea of the project was brilliant , the executives rejected the proposal due to the economic situation of the company .
For instance , Toshiba 's corporate leaders denied Tetsuya Mizoguchi 's request on the laptop project ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
In contrast , a project which is done in a skunkworks environment does not undergo the company 's bureaucracy .
In other words , the start of skunkworks does not depend on the executives ' decision .
As a result of the difference in organizational structure , a conventionally generated technology and an innovation that was created in a skunkworks environment also differ in time consumption .
The project which is done in a conventional way needs more time due to the approval of the corporate executives .
Consequently , the project which is done in a skunkworks environment consumes less time than the conventional one .
This is why in 1943 , the Air Tactical Service Command ( ATSC ) of the Army Air Force gave Lockheed Aircraft Corporation a command to build a jet fighter due to the rapidly growing German jet ( " Skunk Works , " n.d. ) .
Despite these differences , a conventionally generated technology and an innovation that was created in a skunkworks environment have two similarities .
Firstly , both of them are handled by professionals .
Due to the complexity of the project , an unskilled person would not be able to do the project .
For instance , Ron Avitzur and Greg Robbins needed professional quality assurance people to test the project and professional writing software people to write the software in the graphing calculator project ( Avitzur , 2004 ) .
Secondly , both innovations have the same purpose in general .
The purpose is to improve the welfare of society by increasing the ability to adapt to the environment .
For instance , hand phone is made in order to communicate with another person in the different place in an easier way .
A conventionally generated technology and an innovation that was created in a skunkworks environment are different but alike .
Though they are different in organizational structure and time consumption , but both still have similarities in the doers and the purpose .
Since a company still have to consider a number of factors when making a decision , bureaucracy in the company will not be gone .
However , by looking at the efficiency of the skunkworks , it is possible for a company to reduce the bureaucracy in order to come out with more innovations .
References
Avitzur , R. ( 2004 ) .
The graphing calculator story .
Retrieved September 6 , 2009 , from http : //www.pacifict.com/ Story/
Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The birth of the laptop computer at Toshiba [ Electronic version ] .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.144- 146 ) .
New York : Free Press .
Skunk works ( n.d. ) .
Lockheed Martin : We never forget who we 're working forTM .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //www.lockheedmartin.com/aeronautics/skunkworks/ index.html Technology .
( 2009 ) .
In Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia .
Retrieved September 9 , 2009 , from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Technology
The solution to energy crisis
As science and technology develops faster and faster nowadays , more and more machines and instruments are created .
However , machines need energy which is always generated from coal , petrol and so forth .
As we all know , the resource mentioned above is non-renewable , and it is also limited .
Then a new problem comes out .
What if human use up the resource in the world ?
What can human live on ?
So , we need to create machines which consume less energy .
In addition , we also need to find new energy to replace old non renewable resources .
An energy crisis may break out because people cry for energy but the resources are limited now .
The step of industrialization becomes faster and faster , so numerous energies are needed .
As resources consumption increases rapidly and they are limited , there are fewer resources for people to use .
And the crisis of shortage of energies has come out to some extent .
Graham Smith and Hazel Rudge-Pickard ( n.d. ) reported that , " The UK currently has around sixty million people .
Without oil it could support maybe twenty million but probably less because there will be no oil to power farm machines , no fertilizer to grow strong crops and no herbicides or pesticides to keep the weeds and insects at bay .
We will be sent back to a pre-industrial revolution world with no hope of it ending .
" from this report , we can realize the significance of solving this crisis .
Innovation of new machines which consume less energy is a good way to solve the problem .
Since there is less energy , we should reduce consumption first .
We can save energy by improving new technology .
Engineers can design new kinds of machines and find new material which can be used to manufacture instruments so that less energy can be consumed .
In addition , finding some new energy is also a feasible solution to prevent the crisis .
There will be a day when we use up all the resources .
So for solving this problem , we should also look for new kinds of energy , such as bio energy , i.e .
eco energy , solar energy and so on .
Take the bio energy as an example .
The bio-energy is that energy obtained from bio-fuel ( eco-fuel ) .
Today , the well known bio-fuel ( the biological one ) are ethanol and biodiesel .
They are obtained from plants and used mostly in transportation .
( Emilian M. Dobrescu and Ciolacu C. B.C. ,2009 ) Since the fuel generates from plants , it means that new energy is renewable .
It can be produced and never limited .
We can implement sustainable development regardless of shortage of resources .
So engineers should do more research on new energy and take more fearless experiments to see if there are some plants can be used to produce energy .
In fact , the new energy is the key to prevent the crisis .
Human has faced a very serious problem , the crisis of shortage of energy .
Because the speed of industrial development increases so fast , more energy is needed .
This leads to the shortage of fuel or resources .
So what engineers should do is to invent new machines which can consume less energy and find new sorts of resources to replace the old non renewable one .
The crisis will almost be solved if we take these two solutions into action .
Furthermore , Engineers should take responsibility to make contribution to the solution , to produce products which can make human live better .
Reference
* Graham Smith and Hazel Rudge-Pickard ( n.d. ) Retrieved September 9th 2009 , From { http : //www.crazysquirrel.com/stuff/rants/energy.jspx } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.crazysquirrel.com/stuff/rants/energy.jspx ] * Emilian M. Dobrescu and Ciolacu C. B.C. ( July 19 , 2009 ) , The Importance of Bio-Fuel in the Area of Renewables Energies .
Retrieved September 9th 2009 .
From { http : //papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm ? abstract_id = 1435955 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm ? abstract_id = 1435955 ]
In recent years , Singapore has placed more and more emphasis on research and development , establishing her status of being home to innovations .
Annually , millions of funds are being pumped into the R&D sector to encourage innovations to offer solutions to the pressing challenges Singapore faces .
Indeed , great success has been achieved , for instance Singapore 's clean water technology is widely recognized by the world .
The large scale research and development effort has placed Singapore as the leader in new water technologies especially in membrane applications .
Despite her huge success in many areas , Singapore does face problems which hamper engineering design processes for innovations .
One problem faced by engineering design in Singapore is the various restrictions due to socio-political system of the country .
Innovations are restricted by the many rules and regulations the country imposed , and sometimes the over emphasis of specific policies which causes development of ideas in an irrelevant area to be neglected .
Singapore is renowned for her strict implementation of rules , and in times it may be seen as too inflexible .
As such , innovations in the contentious areas are often restricted .
The ideas eventually accepted are shaped primarily by commercial interests and governmental policies .
In recent years , the core objectives of the country 's research and development project have been directed in the area of clean energy and water technology .
Various programmes have been initiated to establish Singapore as the Global Clean Energy Hub , for instance the Clean Energy Research Programme , which is a competitive funding scheme to encourage innovations in this area .
However , the over exertion of her efforts may simply cause innovations in the other areas to be neglected .
As a result , innovation process is interrupted at the stage of research and development with the absence of supports and attention .
Aside from this , innovations that are radically different face even greater problems in being accepted .
This can be attributed to the inflexibility of the system causing rejection of innovations that is less relevant with the corporate or country 's interest .
Another problem faced by engineers in Singapore is the limitations in resources .
Despite having the most advance infrastructure , the best institute for research , Singapore still lacks the resources for certain development .
Due to her limitations , innovations in some areas are restricted since the accessibility to resources would be too difficult and pose potential problems .
High cost may be incurred for certain research when scarce resource or externally imported resources involved .
Foreign experts may also be engaged to facilitate researches .
Hence the lack of resources adds hindrance to the process of innovation .
Aside from the lack of resources for the research and development stage , difficulties may be faced in finding suitable target group for the innovation result within the country .
The low population of the country disables experimentation on a large scale basic which eventually may cause inaccuracy in the result .
Indeed just earlier this year , a team of National University of Singapore researchers find themselves facing this problem .
The team came up with a chair that turns sound into vibrations , which can potentially help the deaf to experience sound better .
However , a problem was faced when they attempt to test out the chair .
They could not get access to enough deaf children locally for the test thus had to travel to Sri Lanka for the test out .
In the engineering of the eco-car , it is also evident that the lack of resources poses great deal of challenges to the team of NUS students , having to import the materials outside of Singapore .
Hence the process of engineering design is hampered by the lack of resource not only at stages of research and development , but also in the diffusion of the innovation .
In conclusion , despite Singapore 's efforts in establishing herself as the Home for Innovations , engineer are compelled by several restrictions such as lack of resources and the inflexibility of the social system .
However , it does not mean engineering design in Singapore is not favorable .
In fact , great success has been achieved in some areas where it face less restrictions .
In the 21st century , everything develops in a very fast pace .
The needs of human beings increase .
In order to meet the people 's needs , the engineers or scientists start to do research and design something for the people 's sake .
They keep on trying and repeating the experiments , and eventually succeed to generate a new technology .
The serendipitous discovery of new ideas therefore , sometimes comes out during the trials .
No matter the technology was resulted from a long period of research or a serendipitous discovery , this technology must have been done by a group or an individual who has already acquired certain knowledge .
They are believed to have undergone many researches and discussions .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , six main stages are involved in the way to come out the technology , they are recognizing a problem , research , development , commercialization , diffusion and adoption and consequences .
This is not an easy works but requires times and efforts to deal with it .
Moreover , although the serendipitous idea is not the desirable outcome , it benefits the world .
The notable example that I want to discuss here is penicillin .
It was accidentally discovered by Alexander Fleming during his investigation about the properties of staphylococci .
This antibiotic is the first drug that is effective against the syphilis and staphylococcus infections .
It successfully saved the people who suffered from the diseases and gave them happiness to have the chance to live again .
Similarly , the discovery of laptop benefits the individual , the society and the world .
It saves the people whose surrounding 's space is small and compact , brings a lot of conveniences to the society .
Nowadays laptop has combined with many functions such as camera , microphone , wi-fi receiver and so on .
We do n't need to buy the devices and it will actually save many spaces .
Every time when we want to discuss assignments with friends , we ca n't bring along the conventional desktop to anywhere .
With the invention of portable personal computer , we can now bring along it to wherever we like !
In spite of the benefits that both serendipitous discovery and research discovery have , there actually exist differences of the two technologies .
The laptop is a product after somebody generates the idea and plans the procedures to make it out .
It is a product after the consideration of the safety and functions .
Step by step , from design , fabricate to assemble .
Therefore , it is a quite safe design for us to use .
However , we actually take a higher risk of the side-effect to consume the penicillin .
Penicillin is a serendipitous discovery .
We only know that the penicillin can cure the syphilis disease , but we will never know what diseases might be caused by consuming penicillin as there exists a lot of uncertainties .
In brief , the two products , laptop and penicillin , are either generated through a long period of research or a serendipitous discovery , they are both made out to meet the people 's requirements .
Although they may not be the best outcome to fulfil the people 's needs , they still lead the world to a technological innovation .
Topic : How electrical dictionary is shaped by students ' need and the specific factors that have shaped its innovation .
I have been witnessed the development of electronic dictronary .
From the huge one with the simplest function to today 's lovely and multi-functional one , electronic dictronary have been refined again and again .
By saying electronic dictronary , I refer to the small handheld computer which people commonly use to look up words .
The development of electronic dictronary is deeply shaped by the need of students , who are the majority of their customers .
In the latter paragraphs , i will talk about how students ' need determine the development of electronic dictronary .
The most obevious change is that the function of electronic dictronary has greatly improved due to the change in students demand .
At the very beginning , it can do nothing but look up words .
In comparision , nowadays electronic dictronary are much more multi-functional .
For example , it can not only look up words in Chinese and English as the old one does , but also many other languages , like Japanese and Franch as well .
It is intellectualized , which enables the users to enrich their electronic dictronary as they like .
And what they need to do is simply downloading programms and install them in the electronic dictronary .
Moreover , as students are not content with a boring study tool , electronic dictronary today can act as good company during leisure time because it possesses the function of MP3/MP4 player and even PSP !
Another significant improvement is the appearance of electronic dictronary .
Instead of the hand-size one , it is only lemon-size big now with a much lighter weight .
As a direct result , it is convience to carry and win students ' regards .
As English is a complusary course to learn in China , electronic dictronary has almost become a necessity to students .
And nearly everyone has one .
Thus it is not simply a tool , but a personal belonging to reprsent their appitite and modernise .
The electronic dictronary with an outstanding look allows students to show off around their fellows .
So the surface becomes bright-colored and beautifully decorated .
All these changes are aimed to cater for students taste and finally attract their attention .
Last but not least , the price of electronic dictronary is also influenced by students .
As students do not have job , they have to ask their parents for money .
Hence they can not spend too much on an electronic dictronary .
In addition , the limitation of electronic dictronary , such as no access to the the Internet , also determines that the price of electronic dictronary can not be too high .
It can not be as expensive as a computer .
In conclusion , electronic dictronary plays an importance role in students ' study , and students in return shape and decide the development of electronic dictronary in many aspects , like price , appearance and function .
It can be seen that as technology develops , electronic dictronary will be more and more helpful to students .
Before a technology innovation is developed and patented , scientists have to go through a tedious research process most of the time .
However , there are also occasional chances that R&D workers fortuitously discover an invention when they were actually pursuing something else .
Whichever way an invention is created , it helps satisfy human needs and solve existing problems .
However , there are still differences between a technology developed with via research such as the electric car and one serendipitously discovered like penicillin .
All technological innovations , regardless of their developing process , help solve world problems .
In view of the increasing emphasis of eco friendliness , the US General Motor R&D unit developed the electric car IMPACT during the early 1990s .
This development received great responses from people throughout the US as it signifies one big step towards solving existing environmental problems such as the global warming .
Similarly , Alexander Fleming 's discovery of Penicillin made many deadly diseases such as Tuberculosis curable .
This groundbreaking discovery also won Fleming a Nobel Prize .
Therefore , the common factor of all technological developments is that they address existing social problems , in one way or another .
However , there are still differences between an innovation that is developed via continuous research and one that is serendipitously discovered .
These discrepancies can be further categorized in terms of their purpose , procedure and effect .
The conventional innovation process requires the engineers to first identify a human need before the research officially begin .
This ensures that the research has a proper target .
Take the development of electric cars as an example , engineers recognized the increasing emphasis on eco friendliness , and therefore developed the vehicle without fuel powered engine to ease global warming .
On the other hand , a serendipitously discovered product is not the preset goal that the researchers want to achieve .
Its application is realized after the product has already been created .
Alexander Fleming did not expect to discover penicillin mould when he left the petri dish containing Staphylococcus plate culture open .
Therefore , an innovation involving continuous research and development differs from an accidental discovery as the former is a rational problem solving process while the latter is more of a lucky surprise .
Apart from the difference in purpose , the conventional innovation products and the one serendipitously discovered also undergo different research and development procedures .
The conventional products usually go through careful planning stages , making the whole development process well prepared .
These innovations are usually backed by solid technological background , expertise and sufficient funds .
GM allocated $ 2 billion for designing , manufacturing and marketing of their electric car IMPACT , after which expert diffusion scholars helped in campaigning for the product throughout the United States .
Within one year , the first tier of cars was put into mass production .
On the contrary , when Fleming discovered penicillin mould , he then had to refer his discovery to Charles Thom , an American specialist for further research .
It took more than 10 years for penicillin to be eventually purified and applied to medical use .
Lastly , the immediate effectiveness of a conventional innovation may be more conspicuous than that of a fortuitous discovery .
The centralized research procedure gives engineers more careful thoughts in the development of a conventional innovation .
The technological product created is thus more sophiscated and addresses human need more directly .
On the other hand , accidental discovery may be too crude for actual application immediately .
After Fleming had discovered penicillin , a series of specialists , including himself , had to carry out tedious research trials to further improve penicillin to ensure stable reaction on human bodies .
In conclusion , technological products developed via research do differ from those serendipitous discoveries in terms of their purposes , research procedures and immediate effects .
Despite of this fact , these products all serve to solve existing problems .
Yet technological innovation is not like a lottery game .
Instead , it should be a conscientious and exact pursuit of solutions .
Although there are occasional lucky winners , engineers should still put in every endeavour in all research processes .
Technological innovations shaped the modern lifestyle .
We use electricity , watch television , surfing around the billions of website every day .
Some of those inventions have become an essential part of our life and we can not live without these inventions .
However , it is clear that these inventions are not produced overnight and human beings had put in a lot of time and efforts to develop and generate them .
Generally , innovations can be generated in two ways -- conventional research or skunkwork .
There are some differences and similarities between the technologies created in the two different backgrounds .
One of the main differences between conventionally generated technology and skunkwork product is the speed of generating the product .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , skunkwork refers to a small group of highly selected people designated to do research for an innovation without carry out tedious organization procedures .
While conventional research requires the researchers to do large amount of reports , discussions and management procedures , skunkwork provides pathway to develop an invention quickly without being constrained by bureaucratic processes .
Therefore , innovations that were created in a skunkwork environment are usually created faster than those inventions created by conventional research .
For example , Roger ( 2003 ) states that the skunkwork of producing laptop , lead by Mizoguchi , involves 10 engineers from military projects and takes only 24 months to complete .
In contrast , a conventionally generated technology may not have move that fast .
Conventional research involves a lot of management procedures .
The research must be approved by the corporate leaders before it can be carried out .
Therefore , conventionally generated technology usually moves slower than that of the skunkwork production .
The second difference is the flexibility in making changes to generate a new technology .
Conventional researches must undergo step-by-step managements to maintain the continuity and stability of a company .
However , it does not favour the technological development .
A good illustration was the failure of Xerox PARC in bringing their outstanding technologies into marketplace .
According to Roger ( 2003 ) , Xerox PARC employed numerous talented researchers and developed outstanding personal computing technology .
However , the corporation restricted itself to develop only in office copier business , not in microcomputer business .
In contrast , skunkwork provides an alternative which is beneficial to technological inventions as well as organization procedure .
The specified team was given resources and freedom to develop and make changes as they see any problem in the invention .
As a result , skunkwork innovations are more flexible and more able to adapt to changes than the conventionally generated technology .
However , there are some similarities between conventionally generated technologies and the skunkwork innovations .
Generally , both ways served to provide better life to the society and gives profit to the company .
For instance , a conventionally generated invention , electric refrigerator was produced to meet the needs of human .
At the same time , the company earned a lot of money from this invention .
On the other hand , skunkwork innovation , such as the production of Toshiba laptop enables users to bring laptop to anywhere .
This invention also makes a lot of profit to the company .
To sum up , conventionally generated technology and skunkwork invention bear some differences and shares some common points .
Although they differs in the procedure throughout the development of a technology , the 2 ways are heading towards a common goalto produce a better environment for human beings .
1 .
Define the problem
Engineering design process is a suitable method that allows engineers to analyze the problems and developing solutions to it .
It breaks down those critical sections and allows the project to proceed in an orderly manner with proper guidelines .
The following is an example of using engineering design process as an approach to solve the problem .
The topic that is catching most attention nowadays would be on global warming or climatic change .
Many engineers and scientists are brainstorming for new ideas to prevent global warming from worsening .
Identify and Establish the Need , Develop a Problem Statement
There are many different views and stands about global warming , discussions are still carrying out between the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) and delegates from oil and gas industry .
Regardless of the conclusion , at the end of the day , we are still required to prepare for the worst situation .
How can planet Earth and the entire human species escape from this impending crisis ?
Many people have been trying tremendously hard in reducing the carbon emission by using clean energy or going into a vegetarian diet .
These methods do work , but only minority of the population is doing it , and results could only be seen after many years of efforts .
Establish Criteria for Success
Earth is heated up by the Sun 's energy and many believe that the increasing amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere worsen global warming by retaining more heat .
Instead of reducing the carbon emission , we can solve this impending crisis by finding some methods that reduces the heat source or able to manipulate the heat input onto Earth .
2 .
Gather pertinent information
Search for Information Resources
Research has shown that whenever a volcano erupts , it releases large amount of dust and gaseous chemicals causing a thick layer of haze to form around the planet , thus reducing the average temperature of Earth by almost one degree Fahrenheit .
3 .
Generate multiple solutions
According to National Geographic ( August , 2009 ) , the 'Big Idea ' is to launch millions of reflective particles or tiny 'sun shades ' into space ( between the Earth and the Sun ) .
These ideas may sound ludicrous , however it is the easiest method that enables us to store more time while we change our lifestyle and prepares for global warming .
4 .
Analyze and select a solution
Launching a few huge sunshades at the altitude , especially at the poles and oceans , this allows some of the heat to be reflected away from them , thus reducing the temperature and melting of glaciers .
Our oceans absorb tremendous quantities of heat that was emitted by the Sun due to the high heat capacity of water .
A relationship is established between the rising sea level and the rise in temperature ( or carbon dioxide concentration ) , the graph below is taken from a scientific journal 'Climatic Dynamics ' which shows us the relationship .
[ pic ]
Launching of sunshades has two advantages , firstly to store enough time to change our lifestyle permanently , example reduce in poultry consumption , reducing the usage of non-environmental friendly materials .
Secondly , to develop more advance technologies such as clean fuel and energy conserving systems .
However , this is not a permanent solution to solve the problem , it is a mitigation step that slows down the crisis from occurring .
It is necessary for us to remove those " sunshades " when Earth starts to cool down , glaciers reform and most importantly , when we ( humans ) are ready .
Ergonomics , Product Safety and Liability and Mechanical/Strength Analysis
Locating the sunshades at remote areas , reduce the probability of injuries in case of any accident .
The material use for the sunshades will mainly be some reflective materials , example sulfate .
It is important that the sunshades are able to stay within the designated area when the Earth orbits around the Sun .
Sunshades switch over would be carry out periodically , as maintenance work could be quite tedious as changing of parts will requires the sun shades to ascend down .
High durability , battery life and able to function at low temperatures must be considered during the design phase .
Economic and Market Analysis
This method allows us to combat global warming easily and fastest compared to many other solutions .
Ken Caldeira , a climate expert at the Carnegie Institution said , " If a country starts thinking it 's in their vital interests to do this , and they have the power , I find it hard to imagine them not doing it .
"
In brief , geoengineering solution allows us to fight global warming temporary , it is just a mitigation approach and not a preventive one .
It is still dependent on us to start changing our lifestyle and cut down on carbon emissions , just in case the sunshades fail , the crisis that we have been masking would soon rush towards us at once .
Two problems in China that hamper engineering designing process
Engineering designing plays a key role in technological innovation .
According to Seyyed Khandani ( 2005 ) , engineering design includes creating technological products which have never existed before and improving the existing devices or systems .
There are five basic steps for solving a design problem : define the problem , gather pertinent information , generate multiple solutions , analyze and select a solution , and test and implement the solution .
Although the description of the designing process is simple and clear , the implement of engineering design is rather complicated and requires several crucial qualities .
Two of the most important qualities are creative thinking skills and intensive working habbit .
However , two problems in China deprived them of these two qualities .
First of all , Chinese education system largely destroyed students ' creative thinking skills .
Inovative thinking contains natural curiosity and bold imagination whereas analytical thinking is comprised of experiences .
The schools in China usually aim at cultivating students ' analytical skills by teaching them knowledge and testing them on the knowledge been taught .
But the education system does n't encourage students to think out of the box to give their own answers or to explore the mysterious world .
This " education for examination " strategy have two negative impact on engineering design .
First , it prevents students from detecting real problems by themselves which is essential in the first step of engineering design .
As the experiences filling up students ' minds , their curiosity is fading day by day until they do n't even bother to take notice the world surrounding them .
In addition , it limits the possible solutions students could come up with , therefore hampers the third step .
Examination often denies imagination .
Hence students gradually lose the ability to conceive fresh ideas .
However , the best way to solve a problem may not be taught by lecturers and books .
Sometimes , we need to use our own brain to find it out .
Secondly , Chinese society destracted engineers from devoting into innovative work .
In scientific world , most of the greatest contributers are from western countires ; the only two Chinese scientist who won Nobel Prize developed their theories in America .
Similarly , in technological area , Chinese engineers seldom have breakthroughs .
These phenomena can be largely subscribed to the impulsive atmosphere of Chinese society .
As a result of the impulsive atmosphere , Chinese government focused too much on economic development but input too little on technological research .
Compared with the developed countries , China stressed more on implement rather than generation of engineering design .
Besides the indifference from government , engineers also did n't attach much importance to engineering design .
Engineering design is a meaningful work but requires lots of sacrifice and devotion since it could n't generate benefits promplty and directly .
Hence , this impulsive atmosphere seriously impacts the whole engineering design .
The lack of innovative thinking skills and the indifference to the creative work have already hampered Chinese engineering design .
To promote creative-centered research and design , China have to transform greatly in these two dimensions .
Reference :
Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Retrieved June 29 , 2009 , from { http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf } [ HYPERLINK : http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf ]
Saturday , September 5 , 2009
In Maslow 's Hierarchy of Needs , health clinches the second platform of the pyramid under the classification of safety needs .
Health , good health in particular , is an important part of our lives .
The Prime Minister in his National Day Rally speech gave immense significance to healthcare .
With health being the subject of conversation in most places , it would not be wrong to classify good health as a need in today 's world .
The measures taken to improve the healthcare system worldwide ranges from the fundamental implementation of affordable healthcare in poor countries to the more advanced introduction of stem cell research .
With one notion of improving the healthcare system , man has even delved into surgery assisted by robots .
Some might find this assisted surgery difficult to fathom while others might argue about the competency of such a system .
Amidst all these opposition , the Da Vinci surgical system rose prominently from the California company intuitive surgical .
This Da Vinci surgical system would not have been made possible without the engineering design process as described by Khandani .
The engineering design process gears up with , first , defining and understanding a problem , The brainchild of the Da Vinci surgical system was the primary need to make the surgical process a less invasive one .
To put it in better words , it was to reduce the size of incisions and to forego the need to crack bones or rib cages .
The problem in this case is the intrusiveness of the surgical procedure on the human body .
With the problem reinstated , it then becomes crucial to mark down the requirements towards accomplishing the design .
However , as mentioned by Khandani , following the development of the design solution , these requirements will have to reviewed later .
Initially , the requirements for this design to kick start were its effectiveness in performing surgery , its ability to be user-friendly and the capacity of it to work without posing potential danger to the patient .
Overall , with the base of the design process carefully established , it would be easier to get to the imminent task .
Following the defining of the problem was the task of gathering sufficient information .
Lack of information would turn out to be potentially lethal to any design process and the Da Vinci surgical system was no exception to this .
The spectrum of information was spread out in all ways , from the need to understand possible fallbacks in the design process to previous attempts at creating the surgical system .
Khandani in his viewpoint mentioned various sources of information like the internet and library .
Information , being a liabilty , will first have to be sourced out and then scrutinized to the minute details .
With information as a good layback , the design can grace the next stage which is the formulation of many solutions to the problem .
With concised understanding of the problem and important information , the design will move to the next stage of creating solutions .
A single solution alone will not be able to suffice in making the design a roaring success .
A good engineer will have to contemplate on various solutions and from various angles .
After gathering various solutions to the problem at hand , Khandhani suggested narrowing down to one solution after considering the pros and cons of each solution .
Making surgery less invasive could mean inventing other instruments but the reason a robot was chosen signifies the importance of surgery .
The lives of patients can not be placed in jeopardy and inventing a design that comprises on safety of the patient was an absolute no .
In the case of the Da Vinci surgical system , it will not be able to function unless it detects the presence of the surgeon 's head in the viewer .
This was indication that the surgery was still in safe hands and was the best solution to making surgery less invasive .
Therefore the solution was specified and the design process was nearing completion .
Having a solution to the problem did not indicate a successful design process until the design was tested and implemented .
This stage depicts the take off of the design for the first time after many trial attempts and failures .
Khandani in his article mentioned four sub categories in the take off which are namely prototyping , concurrent engineering , documentation and applying for patents .
A good engineer will have to consider these sub categories before his creation takes place .
In context to the Da Vinci surgical system , take off of the system also meant clearance by the FDA .
The FDA 's approval formed another sub category other than those mentioned by Khadhani in his article .
July 2000 was a significant date in the history of the Da Vinci surgical system and was a mark that the world was taking the first step towards digital surgery .
July 2000 was the date the surgical system could perform advanced surgical techniques .
The opportunity to test and implement meant that the surgical system was ready to start its race in addressing health concerns .
In conclusion , the need of the world and the attempts to address the need required one to go through an engineering design process .
Health was the need in this case and the Da Vinci surgical system went through the design process .
It is worthwhile to note how the healthcare system as a problem metamorphosized into the generation of solution in the name of the Da Vinci surgical system .
The engineering design process as Khandhani clearly paints in his article is the guiding tool for various important inventions .
Overall , the system is an effective design that has addressed the health concern of the world .
The impediment in the way to innovation in China
In ancient China , there were four great inventions , the gunpowder , printing , the compass and paper making .
However in modern times , the engineering design developed very slowly .
Why did this happen ?
I think there are many reasons .
In the Qing dynasty , the governing class implemented closed door policy , which made the society stagnated for a long time .
Then the Cultural Revolution made a deep effect on Chinese society which needed another long time for China to recovery .
Even nowadays there are still some problems existed which hamper the engineering design process .
Here we are going to talk about two problems , the examination-oriented education system and the worship of authorities .
The examination-oriented education , as the name implies , is the education whose purpose is getting high grades in the exam .
Teachers teach for the exam .
Students study for the exam .
This results that students have high scores but low abilities .
In the first stage of the engineering design process--define the problem , people need an active mind to design problem , but many students under the examination-oriented education system only know how to use their knowledge to answer the question on the examination paper , they do not know how to use knowledge to solve the real problems .
In the third step of the design processgenerate multiple solutions , this needs divergent thinking and analytical skills , whereas the examinationoriented education do not emphasis the importance of thinking and skills .
Its only purpose is high score in the exam .
The skills which needed in the design process can not be gain from such an education system .
Chinese educationalists have noticed this problem .
They have implemented another education system , education for allrounded development , which emphasis that developing students ' abilities is the most important thing .
In China , the worship of authorities is blind .
Authorities are always right and can not be queried .
This is also not good for people to design for innovation .
To generate multiple solutions , it needs to try new ways audaciously .
However , people always can not break the shackle of the authorities .
They do not dare to challenge the authorities .
This may owe to the class concept in China .
Under shackles , no good ideas will be gotten .
The blind worship of authorities also will hamper the academic exchange between the authorities and students .
Rogers have said in the generation of innovation , " the innovationdevelopment process is , most of all , driven by the exchange of technical information in the face of high degree of uncertainty " .
That is to say that the exchange of information is very important for innovation .
These problems hampered the process of engineering design for innovation .
When there are problems , there also must be some ways to solve the problems .
China has already find ways to solve these problems , but solving these problems needs time .
I believe that one day there is no problem in the way to innovation in China .
Technologies have changed and advanced over the years , leading to the birth of many innovations we are using today .
In the midst of using these technologies today , we can view them from either a technologically determinist perspective or a socially determinist perspective .
To look from the former point of view , it means that the technology has played a part in shaping the society today .
While viewing from the latter would suggest that it is due to the societal factors that has shaped the technology today ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
The electric car is an example of a socially determined technology , which came about due to factors from the different sectors of the society , such as the economy , government and the environment .
In view of the rising fuel prices in the recent decade , car manufacturers have addressed the need to reduce costs in production , so as to be able to pass on minimal costs to the consumers , yet still remain competitive and appealing in the market .
To invest , research and produce the electric car is a good deal in the long run , mainly because the car runs on electricity that is of a much lower cost than fuel .
Furthermore , this would reduce the dependency on fuel in the future for cars , should one day the world has run out of fuel .
With this in mind , the car manufacturer General Motors embarked on a $ 2 billion project on designing , manufacturing and marketing the electric vehicles in the early 1990s ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
They had received an overwhelming response from the masses to test-drive the new car when they launched their test-drive campaign .
Mavens , who were specialists and consultants in their own field of expertise , were selected .
They provided opinions and disseminating the information of the electric car to the larger market , which eventually boosted the total car sales of GM when they officially launched their first electric car into the market in the late 1990s ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
From the economic viewpoint , the technology of the electric car would benefit the manufacturers from the reductions of their production costs in the long run , and this would spur them on to increase their production with improved technology .
One of the more outstanding features of an electric car is its non-polluting factor .
With increased global warming and rapid emissions of greenhouse gases from factories and fuel-powered vehicles , there is an urgent need to reduce these emissions and the clean technology of the electric car is one of the solutions to address the environmental concerns .
To invest in the green technology would therefore require a significant amount of financial resources , and to encourage continuation in this area of research , the government plays a role as a banker to grant incentives to these companies .
In early August this year , US President Obama had announced that incentives of $ 2.4 billion are to be pumped into the development of the eco-friendly technology ( CNN.com , 2009 ) .
With the financial aid from the government and the promising potential sales of the electric cars in the market , the car manufacturers are much complied to design , improve and thus , market these cars while the heat is still on .
Even back in the 1990s , the government had already taken action to encourage the innovation of electric cars .
The California and Arizona state governments had announced and made compulsory for 10 per cent of the total car sales in the market to be environmentally-friendly , so as to reduce the pollution levels in their states ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
Social construction of technology is also what called as the social determinist technology .
The electric car is clearly an example of such technology because as early as 1990s , the environmental issues were already present such that the government had to take action to mitigate the situation .
It was only due to economic reasons recently that the production of electric cars is stepped up .
Behind the scenes , the birth of the technology of the electric car is primarily due to the society reasons then , and even till today , the electric car is constantly being re-designed and improvised with better technology so as to remain competitive in the market and most importantly , eco-friendly on the roads .
There is a legend that has been fascinating people from some one thousand year ago : God was going to send a deluge to destroy the earth and almost all the living things on earth which had become corrupt .
However , taking pity on what he had created , he instructed Noah to build a big vessel to save some species of the creatures .
Ultimately , the great flood wiped out all the beings except those Noah have conserved on the ark .
This Bible version of saving the dying out creatures inspired scientists to work on a new " Noah Ark " , or a " doomsday " conservancy , to store genetic materials in case of future use for both scientific purpose and biological diversity .
However , this time , the one who destroys the earth is no more the god but human beings themselves .
As a matter of fact , the Earth 's population is currently increasing , coupled with pollution , urban sprawl , deforestation , and climate warming which caused serious damages to the habitats of the plants and animals .
These series of human activities with their negative effects on the environment directly lead to an inevitable consequence : species extinction .
Dr. Donald A. Levin , Professor of Biology , University of Texas , Austin once claimed in the January-February issue of American Scientist magazine , " Although the extinction of various species is a natural phenomenon , the rate of extinction occurring in today 's world is exceptional -- as many as 100 to1,000 times greater than normal .
" The alarm-bells have been rung , which draws worldwide attention .
Both scientists and environmentalists are endeavoring to change the situation , and fortunately there is good news for those who really care about the endangered creatures .
Besides the set up biological laboratories , various kinds of DNA repositories have been built while more plans are under way .
So far , there are already more than 1,400 seed banks in the world , in addition to those are intended for both plants and animal DNA storage .
A technical question may be raised from the public : how to store DNA ?
Newspapers revealed some information on this issue .
Genetic material Samples are placed inside tiny vials , which then were put into numbered boxes with special code respectively .
The temperatures of vats storing the species are normally adjusted to -160 to -18 degrees Celsius depending on different species .
In the vats there is liquid nitrogen , but samples are perched above 20 centimeters of it to let the vapor , instead of the liquid itself cool and preserve the genetic information .
As such , specimens can be perfectly stored for some 1000 years .
However , can the problem of species extinction really be solved by this technology ?
Since this particular technology came into being under the influence of human activities , it will definitely continue changing .
In other words , when the technology becomes more mature and more profitable in the future ( which is very possible ) , it is very hard to guarantee that it will only be put into good use .
What if the issue involves crime , disease or simply moral controversy like cloning ?
The outcome remains to be seen .
Anyway , social requirement created it and it is meeting the allowable needs for the time being .
( January 3 , 2002 ) .
Extinction Rate Across The Globe Reaches Historical Proportions .
Retrieved from http : //www.utexas.edu/news/2002/01/03/nr_extinction/
Doug Mellgren ( November 15 , 2007 ) , Cooling Begins for " Doomsday " Seed Bank .
Retrieved from http : //news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2007/11/071116-AP-arctic-seed.html
Katherine Harmon , ( July 8 , 2009 ) , Endangered Species Get Iced in Museum DNA Repository Retrieved from http : //www.scientificamerican.com/slideshow.cfm ? id = endangered-species-dna&photo_id = 5BF23875-FC4B-1AEE-96A3C1560FB4852D
Technologies have the capabilities of solving problems and improving on our daily life .
In order to come out with useful technologies , Rogers ( 2003 ) states that the process involves research for more in depth understanding of scientific knowledge , followed by research to solve specific problem and finally , development of the technologies .
However , in the mist of researching on a particular technology , discovery of new technologies may appear unexpectedly .
There are both similarities and differences between technologies developed via research and technologies resulted from a serendipitous discovery .
For example , the invention of laptops and the discovery of 3M Post-it pads respectively .
Laptops and Post-it pads are both favorable to us in one way or another .
In the case where space constraint is of concern , laptops will be the solution .
This is due to the fact that the size of laptops is much smaller than desktop computers as the latter consist of monitors as well as central processing units ( CPU ) .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , " the laptop made particular sense in Japan , due to crowded offices and small homes " .
Similarly , the 3M Post-it pads are useful to us in our daily life .
With Post-its , any notes , instructions or reminders can be written on it and attached to " a letter or other document " ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
Hence , both inventions are beneficial to us .
The two technologies also possess another similarity , that is , they are both profitable .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , laptops demand increased from 5,000 units per month in 1986 to 100,000 in 1989 .
Nowadays , laptops are still widely used all over the world by students as well as businessmen .
This infers that laptops are doing well in the market .
Likewise , Post-it pads are " one of the 3M 's most profitable products " ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
Thus , both the laptops and the Post-it pads are profitable .
However , between these two technologies , one of their differences is how the idea came about .
For invention of laptops , idea came about when there was a problem to be solved , which is , " due to crowded offices and small homes " ( Rogers , 2003 ) in Japan .
On the other hand , for the 3M Post-it pads , the unexpected discovery came about when 3M researchers are investigating on a new adhesive ( Rogers , 2003 ) .
Therefore , the creation of Post-it pads is unintentional while creation of laptop is with intended purposes .
Another difference between the two technologies is regarding the room for further development .
For laptops , advancements are constantly introduced to attract the market .
For example , there are faster processors and more internal memory space being incorporated .
In addition to that , shrinking of laptops sizes and the variations of designs makes them even more attractive than before .
There will surely be more enhancements to come in the near future .
However , for Post-it pads , the developments are probably limited to colors , shapes , size and the extent of how sticky it is .
Hence , in terms of future developments , laptops may have a better prospect as compared to Post- it pads .
In conclusion , both technologies , which were either developed by research or by chance , have its similarities as well as differences .
Although there are certain differences between them , the characteristics that both are profitable and useful in our daily life operation in one way or the other are important elements when developing a technology .
Therefore , no matter whether the creation is based on research or luck , as long as it benefits us in one way or the other , it is a great invention .
References :
a ) Rogers , E.M. ( 2003 ) .
The birth of the laptop computer at Toshiba .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.144- 146 ) .
New York : Free Press .
b ) Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp.136-158 ) .
New York : Free Press .
According to Rogers ( 2003 ) , the development of technologies can be examined from a technologically determinist perspective , that is to create a revolution in the society .
However , for technologies to be widely adopted and successful , inputs from the society must never be neglected .
In fact , innovations are more often shaped by social aspects .
One example of such technology is the 3-D printer .
The 3-D printer currently available has the ability to produce complex model of differing shapes and sizes in a short duration .
In addition , it can print on various materials ranging from rubber to plastic .
These properties of the 3-D printer are consequences of psychological and economic factors .
Present technology is insufficient to convince investors to finance proposals , especially in the manufacturing or construction sector .
While computer-aided designing software is available to produce 3-D simulation , it lacks realism .
Since such project involves huge amount of money , investors must be ascertained that their commitment will bring them profit .
One way of convincing them is to produce physical prototypes where that can feel and scrutinize .
Secondly , creating models with traditional means is time consuming , which does not make economical sense to businesses .
Companies are often engaged in a race to unveil their product ahead of their competitors , so as to seize a major share of the marketplace .
In such situation , time is of essence .
In consideration of these factors , designers have conceived the 3-D printer , which is capable of speeding up designing process .
Based on a report in The Economist ( 2009 ) , it now takes Timberland merely ninety minutes to turn a design of a new sole into a model using the 3-D printer , a significant decrease from a week that the process requires in the past .
The factors that shaped the technological innovation of the 3-D printer discuss thus far are coming from the end-user perspective .
However , factors from the manufacture 's viewpoint are also considered to ensure the commercial success of the 3-D printer .
These factors have also influenced the design of the 3-D printer .
The designing of the 3-D printer is also influenced by the potential profitability of it .
The development of the technical aspects of a technology involves the devotion of large amount of resources , which will results in increased cost .
As with all business operators , corporate manufacturers must ensure that their product is profitable , or at the basic able to recuperate the financial resources poured into research and development .
The designers of the 3-D printer had ensured that their product appeal to a large consumer group by boosting its functionality .
As mentioned in The Economist ( 2009 ) , the " machine can not only produce things out-of plastic , but also complex ones with moving parts .
"
In conclusion , the technological innovation of the 3-D printer is shaped by the demand for realistic model that can be produced in a short time .
Besides , it is also influenced by the potential profitability of the corporate manufacturer .
The engineering design processes as described by Khandani ( 2005 ) provides a well-rounded methodology to come up with solutions to a need .
The process starts with identifying the underlying cause of the need to effectively solve the problem at hand , followed by research on the topic for better understanding .
Brainstorming for solutions comes next and the engineer lists out all the possible solutions for self-critique later .
Armed with more information on the problem , the engineer would be able to make better decisions on the final solution to optimise on and adaptation as a prototype .
The focus of this essay is ; however , on the ways the engineering design processes help fulfil a particular need .
Therefore the final step of implementing the solution will not be discussed .
In 1997 , a group of countries agreed to commit to the Kyoto Protocol , which aims towards a reduction of greenhouse gases emitted in view of the potential climatic changes to come should the situation be left unattended to .
Today , even as many other countries have taken small steps towards the control of greenhouse emissions , the fact remains that a large portion of the energy we generate for human consumption still comes from the burning of fossil fuels .
There is therefore a need for a more environmentally friendly way to generate the energy for our use .
The development of a problem statement gives the engineer a chance to look into the elements which the need is comprised of .
In this case , to reduce the undesirable emissions of mainly carbon dioxide , sulphur dioxide and the oxides of nitrogen in order to provide environmentally friendlier energy .
With the aid of a clear problem statement , the engineer is able to tackle the problem at its core by following through with an objective-specific statement .
The act of gathering information pertaining to the problem enables the engineer to look into possible past solutions to examine their effectiveness in dealing with the situation .
As previously mentioned , the Kyoto Protocol binds the countries in agreement to achieve approximately 5 to 10 percent reduction in greenhouse emissions .
Noting the episode when the United States opted out citing the potential costs towards their economy , the engineer bears in mind that the social acceptance of his system is largely shaped by the final economic cost or gain by its users .
Next in line with the design process is to brainstorm for solutions and list all of them out for later comparison .
For the need of environmentally friendly energy generated , the possible solutions are , though not limited to , alternate sources of energy and increased efficiency of fuel to energy conversion in conventional fossil fuel power generators .
In the last step of our discussion , the analysis and therefore selection of a single solution for adaptation , falls back heavily upon previous research .
The engineer must be mindful of various factors and make a choice towards one solution which balances the criterion he deems necessary for his product to meet the need .
I defined the more important requirements of the final solution to be its ease of acceptance by users , the extent of reduction of undesirable emissions and the time taken for implementation and effect .
Comparing the two solutions , alternate sources of energy like wind energy , hydroelectric energy or nuclear energy significantly reduces the amount of greenhouse gas produced .
However , it is not likely that they will be able to replace the current infrastructures of fossil fuel generators at a quick rate due to high start-up costs , and in some cases geographical constraints .
Hence , despite being an ideal solution in the long run , alternate energy sources are unable to curb the problem now .
On the other hand , increasing efficiency of current generators allow for optimisation tune-ups , which are less costly and more likely to be welcomed and readily adopted by the energy business .
Furthermore , there is much room for improvements in fuel to energy efficiency ; with innovation towards developing upgrades for conventional generators to better utilise the usual energy lost as heat , the amount of fuel needed and therefore greenhouse gas emissions could see a decrease of upwards of 20 percent .
The solution to the need of an environmentally friendlier way to generate energy based on my particular set of factors is therefore to innovate for an add-on to existing power generators to provide greater efficiency of fuel to energy conversion .
This will reduce the greenhouse emissions as smaller amounts of fuel would be needed to generate the same amount of energy , thus meeting our need .
The ubiquitous gasoline cars we have around the world nowadays are being slowly replaced by the electric-powered cars .
In fact , U.S President Barack Obama is aiming to put a million electric vehicles on the roads by 2015 ( Peter , 2009 ) and with the world 's number one superpower taking the lead , it is almost as sure that the rest of the world will jump on the bandwagon .
These battery-powered cars were previously a costly mode of transport limited to a niche market but they have since been reborn and are creating a new wave in the automobile market .
The rebirth of the electric vehicle technology can be attributed to the revived interest by the automobile giants , government regulations on greenhouse gas emission and also the improvement in the technicalities previously assosciated with electric cars .
This year , the US Department of Energy , after a highly competitive application process , handed out US $ 400 million in grants to the 'Big Three ' - Chrysler , Ford and General Motors to develop next-generation technologies for electric vehicles ( Elie , 2009 ) .
The vote of trust as shown by the Big Three 's initiative in developing this technology has provided a huge boost to the viability of electric cars replacing gasoline vehicles as the main mode of transport on the roads .
Together with the strong backing of the government , it is exactly the type of stimulus that the electric vehicles require in order to make a strong and sustained headway into the automobile industry .
US President Obama is expected to sign an order next month for federal agencies to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 ( Tim , 2009 ) .
This is also reflected on a global scale , with major economies such as Russia , United Kingdom and China pledging to reduce their greenhouse gas emission within a similar time frame through carbon emission regulations and guidelines .
Switching from gasoline vehicles to the 'zero-emission ' electric vehicles will significantly reduce the carbon emission of these countries , hence the resurgence of electric vehicles and their technology .
Previously , electric vehicles were plagued with numerous technical problems and simply did not appeal to car owners .
Major problems included long charging time of up to hours and the lack of charging facilities However , improvement in the charging technology promises to reduce charging time to between 10 and 45 minutes .
In addition , studies say that as much as $ 320 million will be spent on charging infrastructure over the next 20 years ( Peter , 2009 ) .
Certainly , with more than one million electric cars on the road , charging infrastructure has to be developed and proliferated to meet the surge in demand for charging points .
The global push towards the adoption of the electric vehicle technology is increasing in tempo .
However , for it to replace the gasoline vehicles will be an uphill task that requires a concerted effort from both the industry and governments .
Hybrid vehicles available on the roads nowadays are a good start , and hopefully in years to come , gasoline cars will be a thing of the past .
According to Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) , development of engineering design process consists of a total six main stages namely , needs/problems , research ( basic and applied ) , development , commercialization , diffusion and adoption and consequences respectively.1 The whole design process of creating new products is tedious and will take very long time to complete the research process , and then to the development stage .
Due to the limited resources in Singapore , the commercialization stage may not be able to execute .
In this manner , most of the development of engineering design process carried out in Singapore end at the development stage .
Examples of two such projects are " NUS Eco-car''2 and " NUS Haptic Chair''.3
In Singapore , moving on to the commercialization stage of the design process is not easily achieved without going through tough brain storming .
There are many factors to consider in order for decisions to be made .
Thus , problems ( may ) arise and hinder the commercialization stage of the design process .
First of all , for the NUS eco-car innovation process , it is true that the development of eco-car is indeed environmental friendly .
It does save the Earth with its advanced technology of bringing upon " green " effects , which will be welcomed by everyone .
However , if eco-car is to proceed on with the commercialization stage in the engineering design process , the problem encountered by my home country is the capital cost .
This is because most of the parts contributed to the assembly of the eco car are bought from overseas and these better grade materials can be rare source and hard to acquire .
Furthermore , hiring skilled workers and buying machine to assemble car are costly as well .
Hence , for the eco-car to be launched in Singapore in its commercialization stage of the design process , the production of car will result in significantly increased in cost of retail price due to the high prices of raw materials in constructing of car .
The high retail price of car will significantly affect the decision of committee to commercialize the product as consumer would not pay much for it .
On the other hand , for the NUS Haptic Chair innovation process , the researchers had successfully developed the chair for the convenience of the deaf people in Singapore .
The problem that hampers the design process is the shortage of testers to test on the product , for which according to the article3 that there were not enough deaf children in Singapore to test this product .
Therefore , there will be no guarantee to the effectiveness to see how the product can be utilized and researcher will not be able to do modification and optimization to the chair for better performance .
In conclusion , capital cost and the shortage of human resources are two of the problems which will significantly hamper engineering design process innovation , which may result in an impact of commercialization stage unable to be realized .
References :
1 .
Rogers , E. M. ( 2003 ) .
The generation of innovations .
In Diffusion of innovations ( pp .
136-157 ) .
New York : Free Press .
2.Knowledge Enterprise .
( May/June 2009 ) .
NUS eco-car ranks 5th at Shell eco-marathon .
Retrieved July 1 , 2009 , from { http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/ke/00905/MayJune.pdf # zoom = 125&nameddest = story9 } [ HYPERLINK : http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/ke/00905/MayJune.pdf ] 3.Chua , G. ( 2009 , July 4 ) .
A chair that 's music to deaf ears .
The Straits Times , p. D8 .
In Newshub - NUS ' News Portal : Print Media Coverage ( July 2009 ) ( { http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/news/0907/PDF/CHAIR-st-4Jul-pD8.pdf } [ HYPERLINK : http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/news/0907/PDF/CHAIR-st-4Jul-pD8.pdf ] ) [ PDF version ] .
Retrieved July 7 , 2009 , from { http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/news/0907/index.php ? type = print } [ HYPERLINK : http : //newshub.nus.edu.sg/news/0907/index.php ? type = print ]
Based on E.M. Roger 's paper on " Generation of innovation " , a typical engineering design process for innovations can be broken down into 6 main stages which is identifying the needs of the market , research process , development of the product , commercialization , diffusion and adoption and finally , consequences .
Out of the 6 stages , I will be elaborating about problems in the research and development stage with reference to examples that occurred in Singapore .
Research is no doubt one of the key factors that contribute to the success of an innovation .
In Singapore , the research sector is one of the best funded field , besides education and defense .
With a population of only about 4 million , coupled with lack of natural resources , Singapore has no choice but to make the most of what resources are available .
Hence the significance and importance of research in Singapore .
Examples of common problems in the research sector are lack of skilled labour , time constraint and budget .
Take the NUS eco-car project for example which was engineered by NUS and still in the research stage .
It is not fully developed and commercialized yet because of its low market value .
To build an effective eco-car , a pool of skilled labour is needed .
However , in NUS , the project is of student level only .
With additional guidance from experienced engineers , the eco- car could have been better designed at probably have a better chance to be marketed .
The lack of skilled labour in the project caused it to be somewhat stuck at the research stage of the innovation process .
Hence the development of the eco-car was not consumer friendly and it was unable to move on to the commercialization stage .
Maybe it would be take a few more years before the eco-car have a potential to be marketed .
Sometimes , in the innovation process , problems may also occur during the development stage .
Take the NUS FSAE race car project for example .
After all the research being done , through software rendering and such , the problems starts when trying to develop it .
After all , the simulation done on computers can not be compared to what the students experienced .
In real life , the theories and graphical models formulated on computers can not be fully achieved and this is a common problem in most engineering innovations .
For this NUS FSAE race car , the innovation stops at the development stage as this is a NUS student project .
It will not be taken to the market level .
The success of the design will be based on the yearly race competition held on an international level .
To sum up , lack of skilled labour and inability to re-create computer simulation in real life are not the only 2 problems commonly faced in engineering design process in Singapore .
However , these 2 problems are enough to cause the downfall and failure of the product when placed in the market .
Engineering design processes consists of five different stages starting with defining the problem , followed by gathering pertinent information , generating multiple solutions , analyzing and selecting a solution and finally testing and implementing the solutions .
When solving a design problem , one may encounter problems that will hamper the design process .
In engineering design processes , two of the problems that will hamper the design process would be the lack of funds and resources .
Fund is an important factor that determines whether the design process can be carry on or otherwise .
To begin with the design process , there is a need to have a team of experts and researchers to sphere head the project which requires hiring cost .
Therefore , the lack of fund will result in the inability to hire professionals to accomplish the task .
Fund also plays an important role in purchasing materials to manufacture the product .
Most of the time , products are made over and over again to improve its weaknesses and strengthen its strengths .
Therefore , purchasing of materials can be quite costly as plenty of them will go to waste .
As a result , the lack of fund will hamper the progress of the design process as there is no material to manufacture a physical product to test its usefulness .
The design process does not stop after coming out with a final product .
This is because the product may not be perfect , and minor yet important changes need to be done to improve the product .
Therefore , further research needs to be done and money will be involved .
Without sufficient funds , research to further improve the product can not be done and this may hamper the design process .
Another main problem that will hamper the engineering design process will be the lack of resources in terms of knowledge , raw material and technology .
Knowledge is very important in engineering design processes .
Without knowledge , one will not be able to make wise decisions during the design process .
For example in the aero plane design process , one needs to determine the material to be use as the body of the aircraft .
Without the knowledge of the characteristics of different materials , one will not be able to choose the best material , which must be strong yet light in weight , to be use .
Knowledge from past experiences will also help in ensuring a smoother design process .
In NUS , a team of students from the engineering faculty took part in Formula SAE Race Car Project in 2001 .
That was the first time engineering students from NUS took part in it .
Due to the fact that it was their first attempt , they realized that the lack of race car knowledge had hampered their design process , which they did not do well for the competition .
However , the engineering faculty has built up the race car knowledge after taking part in several annual competitions , and in the recent competition it came in 19th place .
Therefore , knowledge plays a crucial role in the design process and the lack of it will hamper the design process .
In summary , the flow of the design process can be hampered by the lack of funds and knowledge .
In the case of lacking of funds , companies need to find sponsorships to fund the cost of their design process .
However , knowledge is something that can not be achieve overnight .
Having past experiences and studies will be the key to gain greater knowledge .
Reference ( s )
a ) Khandani , S. ( 2005 ) .
Engineering design process .
Retrieved June 29 , 2009 , from http : //www.iisme.org/etp/HS % 20Engineering- % 20Engineering.pdf
Engineering Design Process Meets People 's Needs
As a living being , maintaining a welfare life is of vital importance .
In fact , whether one can keep leading a high quality life largely depends on a reliable energy supply .
To illustrate it simply , one current need of modern people is the demand for a consistent energy source .
Therefore , engineering design process aims to invent a technology approach to meet people 's need .
By identifying the problem and listing all the possible resolutions , it will figure out the best energy source and try to utilize it to supply energy .
After that , gradual improvements will make it more practical , which subsequently serve the public better .
It is known that we all live in a new era where every social activity or industry production activity we do is closely relevant to energy utilization .
Sometimes when the electricity power is cut off temporarily , or the price of petrol is raised rapidly , we will find that our lives are severely affected .
Hence , demand for effective energy supply is the major need of modern people .
A successful engineering design processes should start with the correct identification of the problem .
The main energy source nowadays is fossil fuel energy which has limited storage in the earth .
In 10 years time , the supply of oil and gas will fail to meet people 's need .
( World 's oil will run out in ten years .
) To avoid the predicted energy crisis happening , engineers are expected to find a new energy source which is sustainable .
The following step is to consider all possible new energy supply source and selecting the best one .
According to reliable research , the new energy supplies include nuclear energy , solar energy , and geothermal energy ( Wikipedia ) .
Their advantage mainly embodies in respect that they are all renewable energy source .
Among them , solar energy is the best choice because it is safer than nuclear energy and easier to be obtained than geothermal energy .
Hence , solar energy comes into our sights as an ideal energy source .
After that , engineering design process applies the engineering theorem and latest technology to practice , which amounts to effectively use solar energy .
For example , solar energy can be used to heat the bath water .
The whole process is like installing a solar penal containing many tubes on the roof of the house where the penal can be maximally exposes to the sunlight .
Then let the bath water flows through the tubes and absorbs the heat collected by the tubes .
Through heat transfer from tube to the water , bath water is heated .
Another application of solar energy is relevant to the energy generation .
Wind and falling water are actually different forms of solar energy ( Harnessing direct solar energy a progress report , 2006 ) .
By releasing the energy stored in them , large amount of electricity is generated which can solve the electricity shortage in some regions of the world and give great support to the normal living and production activities .
Last but not least , the engineering design process still needs gradual improvements to truly meet people 's need .
The production cost of solar energy is higher than that of fossil fuel energy , which therefore impedes its popularization .
Hence , how to cut the cost is what engineering designer should consider about in the future , in order to let solar energy be utilized more successfully .
In sum , the demand for energy supply is a current need that is closely relevant to people 's lives , as it is the basis for maintaining the high living standard .
Engineering design process shows that solar energy would be a promising energy source , which is worthwhile to develop .
Yet we still have to endeavor on reducing its production cost .
In this way , engineering design process of utilization of solar energy can meet people 's needs .
References :
Renewable Energy .
Retrieved on 09th September , 2009 from http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renewable_energy World 's oil will run out in ten years .
( 2009 ) .
Retrieved on 9th September , 2009 on http : //www.theinsider.org/news/article.asp ? id = 0423
Harnessing direct solar energy a progress report .
( 2006 ) .
Retrieved on 9th Sep , 2009 from http : //www.science.org.au/nova/005/005glo.htm
Nowadays , people have been more health conscious than before .
The need can be seen when they are willing to spend hundreds to thousands of dollars on medical bills .
Challenges have been faced by doctors , drug researches and biomedical engineers to collaborate in this matter in order to come out with the best solution to address current health problems .